One of the questions I get asked a lot is about a DH ADHD and attention deficit of various kinds. I have the hunch that one reason I get asked so often is that people are feeling really distracted and, and challenged in funneling their attention and their behavior. But, and there are a number of reasons for that of course, but what is true A DHD and what does it look like? What can be done for it? And what, if any, role for channel ops options or these downstream technologies that you're developing, what do they, what do they offer for people that suffer from A DHD or have a family member that suffers from A DHD? 

Yeah, 

This is, it's a pretty interesting branch of, of psychiatry. There's no question that people have been helped by the, the treatments. There's, you know, active, you know, debate over, you know, what fraction of people who have these symptoms can or should be, be treated. 

This is typically Adderall or stimulants of 

Some kind. Yeah. For example, the stimulants. That's right. So A DHD, it's as, as its name suggests, it has symptoms of, it can have either a hyperactive state or an inattentive state. And those can be completely separate from each other. You could have a patient who, who effectively is, is not hyperactive at all, but can't remain focused on the, the what's going on around them 

Classroom. So their body can be still, but their, their mind is darting around. That's 

Right. That's 

Where they can be very hyperactive with their body. 

Yeah. It happens both ways. 

Probably rarely is somebody hyperactive with their body, but their mind is still, 

I, I notice I have to think complex, abstract thoughts. I notice I have to be very still, so my body has to be almost completely unmoving for me to think very abstractly and, and deeply. Other people are different. Some people when they're running, when they get their best thoughts, I can't even imagine that my brain does not work that way at all. I have to be totally emotionless, which is kind of interesting. How do 

You go about that? 

I I I sit much like this, you know, I I I try to have time in each day where I am. I'm literally sitting almost in this, in this position, but, but without distraction and, and thinking and, and it, so it's kind of a, it's almost meditative in some ways except it's, it's not a true meditation. But I, I am thinking, well, not moving in intentionally. 

You're, you're trying to structure your thoughts Yeah. In that time. Yeah. 

Interesting. Yeah. So, but everybody, as you say, is, is, is very different. And so with, with A DHD you have, the key thing is we wanna make sure that this is present across different domains of life, school and home to show that it really is a pervasive pattern and not something specific to, you know, the teacher or the, the home situation or something. And then you can help patients. It's interesting that, that A DHD is one of those disorders where people are trying to work on quantitative EEG based diagnoses. And so there's some progress toward making up a diagnosis with looking at particular externally detectable brainwave rhythms. So 

Skull cap with some electrodes that don't penetrate the skull. That's right. And this can be done in an hour or two hour session. Sure, that's right. Has to be done in the clinic, right? Yeah. 

In the clinic, right. You have to have the right recording apparatus and so on. But, but, but that's in principle, as you increasing confidence comes in exactly which measurements one could even imagine moving toward, you know, home tests. But we're not there yet. 

Amazing. I think one of the reasons I get asked about it so much is a lot of people wonder if they have a DHD. Do you think that some of the lifestyle factors that inhabit us all these days could induce a subclinical or a clinical like a DHD? Meaning if I, I look at people's phone use, including my own, and I don't think of it like addiction. It looks to me and feels to me more like OCD. And I'll come clean here by saying, when I was younger, when I was a kid, I had a grunting tick. I used to hide it. I actually used to hide in the closet 'cause my dad would make me stop. And I, I used to, yeah, I couldn't feel any relief of my mind until I would do this. And actually now if I get very tired, if I've been pushing long hours, it'll come back. 

Interesting. I was not treated for it, but I will confess that I've had the experience of, I always liked sports where I involve a lot of impact, fortunately not football. Yeah. Because I went to a high school where the football team was terrible. Maybe that would've avoided more impact. But things like skateboarding, boxing, they bring relief. I feel clarity after a head hit, which I avoid. But, but I used to say that's the only time I feel truly clear for a lot. And then eventually it dissipated by about age 16, 17, it just disappeared. Yeah. So I have great empathy for those that feel like there's something contained in them that won't allow them to focus on what they wanna focus on. And these days with the phone and, and all these email et cetera, I, I wonder, and I empathize a bit when I hear people saying like, I think I might have a DHD or a DD, do you think it's possible that our behaviors and our interaction with the sensory world, which is really what phones and email really are, could induce a DD or reactivate it? 

You know, I, this is a great question. I I think about it a lot. There's, you know, and you, you mentioned this, this tick like behavior in, in yourself. It's very common that people who have ticks have this building up of something that can only be relieved by executing the, the tick, which can be a motor movement or, or a vocalization or even a thought. And, and, and people do, I think these days do have this, if they haven't checked their phone in a while, they do have a buildup, a buildup, a buildup until they can, they can check it and relieve it. And, and, and there's some similarities, you know, there is a little reward that comes with the, with the, the, the checking. But the, the key question in all of psychiatry, what we do is we, we don't diagnose something unless it's disrupting what we call social or occupational functioning. 

Like you could have any number of symptoms, but literally every, every psychiatric diagnosis requires that it has to be disrupting someone's social or occupational functioning. And these days, you know, checking your phone is pretty adaptive. That pretty much helps your social and occupational functioning. And so we can't, we can't make, and we can't make it a psychiatric diagnosis. It's interesting, At least in the world of today, 

I'd love your thoughts on psychedelic medicine, putting them into patients and seeing tremendous positive effects, but also tremendous examples of induced psychiatric illness. In other words, many people lost their minds as a consequence of overuse of Psychedelics. I'll probably lose a few people out there, but I do want to talk about what is the state of these compounds? And I realize it's a huge category of compounds, but LSD and psilocybin, as I understand, trigger activation of particular serotonin receptor mechanisms may or may not lead to more widespread activation of the brain, more that one wouldn't see otherwise. 

But when you look at the clinical and experimental literature, what is your sort of top contour sense of how effective these tools are going to be for treating depression? Well, you're, 

You're right to highlight both the opportunity and, and the peril that is there. And of course, we want to help patients, and of course we want to, to explore anything that might be be helpful and, but we wanna do it in a safe and, and rigorous way. But I, I do think we should explore these, these avenues. These are agents that alter reality and alter the experience of reality, I should say, in, in relatively precise ways. They, they, they do have problems. They can be addictive. They can cause lasting change that is not desirable. Now that said, even as these medications exist now as you know, there's an impulse to, to use them and very small doses and to use them as adjunctive treatments for, for the therapy of, of various kinds. 

And I, I'm also supportive of that if done, you know, carefully and, and rigorously, of course there's risk, but there's risk with many other kinds of, of treatment. And I'm not sure that the risks for these medications vastly outweigh the risks that we normally tolerate in other branches of medicine. 

Why would they work? I mean the, you know, let's say that indeed their main effect is to create more, more connectivity, at least in, in the, in the moment between brain areas. So Psychedelics seem to be a, a trajectory of not off, too far off from the dream state where space and time are essentially not as rigid. And there is this element of synesthesia, blending of the senses, you know, feeling colors and hearing light and things of that sort. It, you hear these reports anyway. 

Why would having that dreamlike experience somehow relieve depression long term? Do we have any idea why that might be? 

I, we have some ideas and no, no deep understanding. One way I I think about the Psychedelics is they increase our willingness to our, they increase the willingness of our brain to accept unlikely ways of constructing the world. Unlikely hypotheses as it were, as to what's going on. The brain in particular. Our cortex, I think is a hypothesis generation and testing machine. It's coming up with models about everything. It's got a lot of bits of data coming in and it's making models and updating the models and changing them. Theories, hypotheses for what's going on. And some of those never reach our conscious mind. 

And this is something I talk about in Projections in the, in the book quite a bit, is many of these are filtered out before they get to our, our conscious mind. And that's good. We, we, we think how distracted we'd be if we were constantly having to evaluate all these, you know, hypotheses about, you know, what kinds of shapes or objects or processes were out there. And so a lot of this is, is handled before it gets to consciousness. What the Psychedelics seem to do is they change the threshold for us to become aware of these incomplete hypotheses or wrong hypotheses or, or concepts that might be noise, but are just wrong and so are never allowed to get into our, our conscious mind. 

Now you know that that's pretty interesting and it goes wrong. And psychiatric disorders, I think in, in schizophrenia, some of the times the paranoid delusions that people have are examples of these poor models that escape into the conscious mind and become accepted as reality and they never should have gotten out there. Now how could something like this in the right way help with something like depression? Patients with depression often are, are stuck. They, they can't look into the future world of possibilities as effectively. 

There's everything seems hopeless. And what does that really mean? They, they discount the value of their own action. They discount the value of the world at giving rise to a future that matters. Everything seems to run out like a river just running out into a desert and drying up. And what these agents may do that increase the, the, the flow through circuitry, if you will, the percolation of activity through circuitry may end up doing for depression is increasing the, the, the escape of some, some tendrils of, of process of, of forward progression through, through the world. 

That's a concept. It's how I think about it. There are ways we can make that rigorous. We, we can indeed identify in the brain by recording. We can see cells that represent steps along a path and look into the future. And we can rigorously define these cells and we can see if these are altered on Psychedelics. And so that's one of the reasons that we're working with these agents in the laboratory to say, are is this really the case or are these opening up new paths or, or representations of paths into the future? 

MDMA. Ecstasy is a unique compound in that it leads to big increases in brain levels of dopamine and serotonin simultaneously. And I realized that the neuromodulators like dopamine and serotonin often work in concert, not alone the way they're commonly described in the, you know, the more general popular discussions. However, it is a unique compound and it's different than the serotonergic compounds like LSD and psilocybin. And there are now data still emerging that it might be, and, and in some cases can be useful for the treatment of trauma, PTSD and, and similar things. 

Why, why would that work? And do you, and a larger question, perhaps the more important question is Psychedelics, MDMA, LS, D, all those compounds there to, in my mind there are two components. There's the experience you have while you're on them and then there's the effect they have after people are generating variations of these compounds that are non hallucinatory variations. But how crucial do you think it is to have the, let's stay with MDMA, the experience of huge levels of dopamine, huge levels of serotonin, atypical levels of dopamine and serotonin released having this highly abnormal experience in order to be normal again. 

Yeah, 

I think the brain learns from those experiences. That's, that's the way I see it. And, and so for example, people on who've taken MDMA, they will, as you say, they'll have, they'll be the acute phase of being, you know, on the, the drug and experiencing the, this extreme connectedness with other people, for example. And then the, the drug wears off and, but the brain learned from that experience. And so what, what people will report is, yeah, I'm not, I'm not in that state, but I saw what was possible, you know, I saw yeah, you can, there don't need to be barriers or at least not as many barriers as as I thought I can connect with more people in a, in a way that I see that is helpful. 

And so I think it, it it's the learning that happens in that state that actually matters. 

And this, as you described, that, that sounds a lot like what I understand to be the hallmark feature of really good psychoanalysis, that the relationship between patient and therapist hopefully evolves to the point where these kinds of tests can be run within the context of that relationship and then exported Yeah. To other relations. Is that exactly 

Right? Yeah. 

And, and that probably I'm assuming is still the goal of really good psychiatry also. 

It's a part of 

Intimacy really. 

It, it should be when we have time, I think all, all good psychiatrists try to achieve that, that level of, of, of connection and learning, try to help patients create a new, a new model that is stable, that is learned and that that can, you know, help instruct future behavior. 

One of the things that I took from reading your book, in addition to learning so much science and the future of psychiatry and brain science, was, you know, amidst these very many am many cases, very tragic cases and, and sadness and a lot of the, the, the weight that that puts on the clinician on you also, that there's a, that there's a central cord of, of Optimism that where we're headed is not just possible, but very likely and and better. Yeah. And you know, it, are you an optimist? 

I am. And this, this is, by the way, this was a really interesting experience in writing Projections because I had a, a, a dual goal. I wanted it to be for everybody, literally everybody in the world who wants to, to, to, to, to read it. And yet at the same time I wanted to stay absolutely rigorously close to the, the science what was actually known when I was speaking about science, when I was speaking about the, the neurobiology of the, of the brain or, or psychiatry. I wanted to, to not have any of my scientific colleagues think, oh, he's he's going too far. He is saying too much. And so I had these, these two goals, which I kept in my mind the entire time. 

And, and a lot of this, trying to find exactly the right word we talked about was on this path of staying excruciatingly rigorous in the science and yet letting people see the hope, the, the where things were have everybody see that we've come a long way, we have a long way to go. But, but the trajectory and the the path is, is beautiful. And so that, that, that was the, the goal. I I, I think, you know, of course that sounds almost impossible to, to jointly satisfy those two, those two goals. But I, I kept that in my mind the whole way through. And yes, I am optimistic. I, and I hope that came through in the book. 

Well, it certainly did, and at least from this colleague, you, you did achieve both. And it's a wonderful, it's, it's a masterful book really, and one that as a scientist and somebody who's a brain fellow, brain explorer, hits all the marks of, of rigor and is incredibly interesting. And there's a ton of storytelling. Definitely check out the book. There are other people in our community that of course are going to be reaching out on your behalf. But it's, it's incredible that you juggle this enormous number of things. Perhaps even more important however, is that it's all in service to this larger thing of relieving suffering. 

So thank you so much for your time today for the book and the work that went into the book. I can't even imagine for the laboratory work in the development channel ops and clarity and all the related technologies and, and for the clinical work you're doing and and for sharing with us. 

Well, thank you for, for all you're doing in reaching out. I, I, I, I'm very impressed by it. It's important and, and it's, it's so valuable. And thank you for taking the time and, and for all your gracious words about the book. Thank you. 