Welcome to Huberman Lab Essentials, where we revisit past episodes for the most potent and actionable science-based tools for mental health, physical health and performance. And now my conversation with Dr. Carl Deser Roth. Well, thanks for being here. 

Thanks for having me. So 

For people that might not be so familiar with the fields of neuroscience, et cetera, what is the difference between neurology and psychiatry? 

Psychiatry focuses on disorders where we can't see something that's physically wrong, where we don't have a measurable, where there's no Blood Test that makes the diagnosis. There's no brain scan that tells us this is schizophrenia, this is depression for an individual patient. And so psychiatry is, is much more mysterious. And the only tools we have are words. Neurologists are fantastic physicians. They see the stroke on brain scans, they see the seizure and the prese activity with an EEG, and they can measure and treat based on those measurables. 

In psychiatry, we have a harder job. We use words, we have rating scales for symptoms. We can measure depression and autism with rating scales. But those are words still. And ultimately, that's what psychiatry is built around. It's, it's an odd situation because we've got the most complex, beautiful, mysterious, incredibly engineered object in the universe, and yet all we have are words to, to find our way in. 

So do you find that if a patient is very verbal or hyperverbal, that you have an easier time diagnosing them as opposed to somebody who's more quiet and reserved or it's, I can imagine the opposite might be true as well. Well, 

It, because we only have words. You put your finger on a key point. If they don't speak that much in principle, it's harder. The lack of speech can be a symptom. We can see that in depression. We can see that in the negative symptoms of schizophrenia. We can see that in autism sometimes by itself. That is a symptom, a reduced speech. But ultimately, you do need something, you need some, some words to help guide you. And that in fact, and there's, there's there challenges that I, I can tell you about where patients with depression who are so depressed, they can't speak. That makes it a bit of a challenge to distinguish depression from some of the other reasons they might not be speaking. And this is a sort of the art and the science of psychiatry. 

Do you think will, will ever have a Blood Test for depression or schizophrenia or autism? And would that be a good or a bad thing? 

I think ultimately there will be quantitative tests. Already efforts are being made to look at certain rhythms in the brain using external EEGs to look at brainwaves effectively. But ultimately, what's going on in the brain in psychiatric disease is physical, and it's due to the circuits and the connections and the Projections in the brain that are not working as they would in a typical situation. And I, I do think we'll have those measurables at some point. Could it be abused or misused? Certainly. But that's, I think, true for all of medicine. I 

Wanna know, and I'm sure there are several, but what do you see as the biggest challenge facing psychiatry and the treatment of mental illness today? 

I think we have, we're making progress on what the biggest challenge is, which I think there's still such a strong stigma for psychiatric disease that patients often don't come to us and they feel that they should be able to handle this on their own, and that that can slow treatment. It can lead to, you know, worsening symptoms. We know, for example, patients who have untreated anxiety issues. If you go for a year or more with a, a serious untreated anxiety issue that can convert to depression, you can add another problem on top of the anxiety. And so it would be, you know, why do people not come for treatment? 

They, they, they feel like this is something they should be able to master on their own, which, which can be true. But usually some help is, is, is a good thing. 

That raises a, a question related to something I heard you say many years ago at a lecture, which was that this was a scientific lecture and you said, you know, we don't know how other people feel. Most of the time we don't even really know how we feel. Maybe you could elaborate on that a little bit, and the, the dearth of, of ways that we, we have to talk about feelings. I mean, there's so many words. I don't know how many, but I'm guessing there are more than a dozen words to describe the state that I call sadness. But as far as I understand, we don't have any way of comparing that in a, in a real objective sense. So how, as a psychiatrist, when your job is to use words to diagnose words of the patient, to diagnose, do you maneuver around that? 

And, and what is this landscape that we call feelings or emotions? 

This is really interesting. People here, we have a, there's a tension between the words that we've built up in the clinic that mean something to the, to the physicians. And then there's the colloquial use of words that may not be the same. And so that's the first level we have to sort out, when someone says, you know, I'm, I'm depressed, what exactly do they mean by that? That may be different from, from what we're talking about in terms of depression. So part of psychiatry is to get beyond that word and to get into how they're actually feeling. Get, get rid of the, the Jargon and get to real world examples of, of how they're feeling. So, you know, how do you, what, how much do you look forward into the future? 

How much hope do you have? How much planning are you doing for the future? So these here, now you're getting into actual things you can talk about that are unambiguous. If someone says, yeah, I, I can't even, I can't even think about tomorrow. I, I'm not, I don't see how I'm gonna get to tomorrow. That, that's a nice precise thing that, you know, it's, it's sad, it's tragic, but, but it's also, that means something. And we know what that means. That's the hopelessness symptom of depression. And, and that is what I try to do when I do a psychiatric interview. I try to get past the Jargon and get to what's actually happening in the patient's life and, and in their mind. But as you say, ultimately, you know, and this shows up across, I, I, I address this issue every day in my life, whether it's in the lab where we're, we're looking at animals, whether fish or mice or rats, and studying their behavior. 

Or when I'm in a conversation with just a, a friend or a colleague, or when I'm talking to a patient, I never really know what's going on inside the mind of the other person. I get, I get some feedback, I get words, I get behaviors, I get actions, but I never really know, 

Are there any very good treatments for psychiatric disease? Meaning are there currently any pills, potions, forms of communication that reliably work every time? Yes. Or work in most patients? And could you give a couple examples of great successes of psychiatry if they exist? Yes. 

And psychiatry, despite the depths of our, the mystery we struggle with, we, many of our treatments are actually, you know, we're, we're, we may be doing better than some other specialties in terms of actually causing, you know, therapeutic benefit for patients. We do help patients, you know, patients who suffer from, by the way, both medications and talk therapy have been shown to be extremely effective in many cases. For example, people with panic disorder, cognitive behavioral therapy, just working with words, helping people identify the early signs of when they're starting to move toward a panic attack. What are the cognitions that are happening? You can train people to derail that. And, and you can very potently treat panic disorder that way. 

There are many psychiatric medications that are very effective for the conditions that they're treating. Antipsychotic medications, they have side effects, but boy do they work. They really can clear up auditory hallucinations, the paranoia. And then, you know, this is a, a frustrating and yet heartening aspect of psychiatry. There are treatments like electro conv, electroconvulsive therapy, which is where, you know, it's extremely effective for depression. We have patients who, nothing else works for them, where they can't tolerate medications. And you can administer under very safe, controlled condition where the patient's body is not moving, they're put into a very safe situation where the body doesn't move or sees it's just an internal process that's triggered in the brain. 

This is an extraordinarily effective treatment for treatment resistant depression. At the same time, I find it as, as, as heartening as it is to see patients respond to this with, with who have severe depression. I'm also frustrated by it. Why, why can't we do something more precise than, than this for these very severe cases? In all of these cases though, in psychiatry, the, the, the frustrating thing is that we don't have the level of understanding that a cardiologist has in thinking about the heart, you know, the heart is, we now know it's a pump, it's pumping blood. And so you can look at everything about how it's working or not working in terms of that frame. It's clearly a pump. We don't really have that level of what, what is the circuit really there for in psychiatry. 

[...CONTINUED IN PART 2...] 