[...CONTINUED FROM PART 1...]

[00:46:26]
His research and what he's been doing at McClane Hospital, which is Harvard's hospital dedicated to mental health, where he's been practicing for 30 years, is shaking up the mental health community around the globe. He has this incredible down-to-earth way to explain this unbelievable research. And you shared this over and over. You rewatched this episode on YouTube over and over. And you wrote to us about how the simple things that Dr. Palmer shared with you have actually helped people that you love who are struggling with depression, schizophrenia, all kinds of mental health issues. Now, he has so much to share with you. We actually did two episodes with him that here's what we're going to do. We're going to hit the pause button so that we can give our amazing sponsors a chance to share a few words with you. I also want to give you a chance to share this best of episode with people that you love. When we come back, you're going to meet Dr. Palmer, and you're going to learn more about his brain energy theory. He's going to teach you simple interventions that have a significant positive impact on issues like anxiety, depression, and so much more.

[00:47:43]
You do not want to miss this. You cannot afford to miss this. Dr. Palmer is not the only one. We got three more experts after him, so don't go anywhere. There is so much more to cover, and I'm going to be waiting for you after a short break. Stay with me. Now we got four more extraordinary experts, and the first up is Dr Chris Palmer. Dr Chris Palmer is a gift to the world. He's a professor at Harvard Medical School, he spent almost the last 30 years at the number one psychiatric hospital in the United States, and that is Harvard's Teaching Hospital, McClane Hospital. It's right here in Boston, near our studios here in downtown Boston. Based on Dr. Palmer's extensive clinical experience, he's on a mission to change the way that mental health is understood, discussed, and treated. Dr. Palmer has created something called the Brain Energy Theory, and he's revelating Revolutionizing the way that medical professionals think about mental illness, what it is, what causes it, and more importantly, how to treat it. If you haven't heard the entire episode, I encourage you to check this episode out and share with anybody in your life who is struggling with mental health issues.

[...TRUNCATED FOR PART 2...] 