[...CONTINUED FROM PART 4...]

[00:52:32]
We have decades of research looking at the ketogenic diet, trying to figure out how on earth does this diet stop seizures when our great pills didn't? Like, what is going on here? And so we know that the ketogenic diet is changing, is having profound effects on the brain function. It's changing neurotransmitters. It changes gene expression. It decreases brain inflammation and body inflammation as well. It central to my thesis, it actually improves mitochondrial function, which in a nutshell means it's improving metabolism, and in particular, brain metabolism. One of the great things about the ketogenic diet, like when it's used for epilepsy, is that people don't have to do it for life. Most often people only need to do it for like two to five years. That actually, quote unquote- That sounds like a It's been a long time, honestly.

[00:53:31]
Two to five years of a. But what is it? Because you guys say keto this, keto that, keto ketosis, or whatever the hell the words are. What is the keto? What am I eating? Walk me through a day of being on the keto diet?

[00:53:45]
The keto diet, in a nutshell, is very low in carbohydrates, moderate in protein, and high in fat. I would recommend getting some information on a well-formulated ketogenic diet. You want do it right. What you would eat if you were doing a ketogenic diet, again, I want to even set the stage. There are vegan versions of a ketogenic diet, vegetarian versions, omnivore versions where you're eating both animal-sourced and plant-sourced food, and even carnivore versions of this diet where all you're eating is meat and eggs and stuff like that. Okay.

[00:54:25]
So this is very inclusive, everybody. But let's just say you and I are going to breakfast, lunch, and dinner today? What are we ordering?

[00:54:31]
So what I might eat if I were eating a ketogenic diet, I am an omnivore. I eat both animal-sourced and plant-sourced foods. I would wake up and I might have eggs and bacon or sausage or some meat.

[00:54:44]
Let's go. Sounds like Sunday brunch, Dr. Palmer.

[00:54:47]
I might add extra butter. If I need more fat, I might add extra butter to the eggs. So some people might look at me making my eggs thinking, why are you putting all that butter your scrambled eggs. I would say because I need the extra fat. For lunch and dinner, similar meals, I would probably have a protein source. That could be steak chicken, salmon, poultry. I would have low carb vegetables. That could include broccoli, spinach, any lettuces, cauliflower, cucumber, pickles, things like that. I would take my pick. When I prepared those vegetables, I would put extra sources of fat on those vegetables. I would put olive oil and plain vinegar, so that might be my serving. I might emphasize nuts and avocados because those are very high in fat and typically thought of as healthy sources of fat.

[...TRUNCATED FOR PART 5...] 