[...CONTINUED FROM PART 5...]

[00:56:00]
How long would you suggest that somebody, if they're going to start with the ketogenic diet, how long should you try it? What would you look out for Dr. Palmer to know that it's actually impacting you in a positive way?

[00:56:16]
I would recommend getting some information on a well-formulated ketogenic diet. You want to include enough healthy types of foods. People sometimes need extra like sodium, potassium, magnesium when they get started on the diet. And nonetheless, there's this thing called the keto adaptation phase or keto flu. So the first week or two in particular can be very rough. I'm just going to let people know. People can feel weak, hungry, hungry, dizzy, irritable, other things. Really? Why? Because they're basically withdrawing from sugar or carbohydrates. More importantly, their body is trying to do this shift from burning primarily on carbohydrates to running on a combination of carbohydrates and fats as fuel sources. For some people, that can be an easier transition. For others, it can be a more difficult transition.

[00:57:18]
Let's just say you get the keto flu. We're now on the other side of the keto flu. We're starting to perk up, what are you going to feel and how do you know if it's working?

[00:57:29]
So The first thing that most people will start to feel is an antidepressant effect. And so they will start to notice that they just feel lighter. They have a little more energy. Their brain starts working a little better. Some people might notice that their sleep is feeling more restorative. If there's somebody who usually has to use an alarm, push the snooze button several times, they might start to notice that it's easier to wake in the morning. They get going faster than normal. For people using this for mental health, it's usually not a lifelong diet. What? A lot of people will do it for one to five years, they actually reinvigorate their metabolism, or most importantly, what that means to me is that they're improving their mitochondrial health. And That actually can then persist so that you've actually done some healing work on your body. And so that if you go back to a whole food, still a healthy diet, I'm not encouraging people to go back to a junk food diet with a lot of processed foods. But if they start adding back carbohydrates, even complex carbohydrates, whole grains or potatoes and other things, they may do extraordinarily well.

[00:59:00]
And again, I want to be clear, I don't necessarily recommend the ketogenic diet for everyone. Not everybody needs it. Some people can just get rid of the junk food and the processed foods. Some people can just get rid of the extra sugar in their diet and do spectacularly well. So they might do well on a paleo diet or... Whole30. Whole30 or a vegetarian or vegan, wholefood plant-based diet. There are lots of options.

[00:59:30]
Okay, great. So eating healthy. What's the next step in your brain energy protocol?

[00:59:34]
Try to exercise a little more than you're currently doing.

[00:59:39]
Is that all I have to do? If I'm doing zero, are you talking one day of resistance training is enough, or would you want to see me out three days?

[00:59:46]
If you're doing zero, do anything. So if you did one day of resistance training a week, but you did most of your major muscle groups and you did it to the point of failure, that would be more than enough. I love it. But you've got to go to failure. If you're only going to work out once a week, you've got to go to failure. We need to build those muscles, which means you're not just going to lift it a couple of times and say, oh, I'm tired. You're going to go until you can't go anymore. Just one set, but you're going to go until you can't go anymore. But it could be just taking a walk after dinner every night. If you can do it every night, it doesn't have to be a long walk. It could be a 10-minute walk, whatever. Just get out of the house. Get away from a screen. Walk around the block. The third thing, I want you to prioritize sleep.

[...TRUNCATED FOR PART 6...] 