[00:00:00]
Hey, it's your friend Mel, and welcome to the Mel Robbins podcast. This year, we had 43 amazing experts that appeared on the Mel Robbins podcast, and some of them were so incredible. They actually appeared a couple of times. I started to wonder, who were the favorites for you and your fellow listeners around the world? I mean, I'm talking the best of the best, so I decided to figure it out. What episodes did you share the most? What did you comment What specific moments did you watch over and over again on YouTube? Well, I've crunched the data. I've reviewed hundreds of hours of our podcast from this year. And today, I'm so thrilled because I have the best of the best of the best from this past year on the Mel Robbins podcast. We've got takeaways. We've got science back advice, laughter, tears, and you're going to want to listen all the way to the end. Here's why. I've got the most moving moments from Mel Robbins podcast waiting for you. It wouldn't be the year-end best of episode without me compiling the very best bloopers of the year, too. All right, let's do this. Hey, it's your friend Mel, and welcome to the Mel Robbins podcast.

[00:01:23]
I am so fired up that you're here today. I mean, it's always an honor to be able to spend time together. But today, especially, you want to know why? Because I'm going to hand the mic over to you. This episode today, it's all about your favorite moments and your fellow listeners' favorite moments for the Mel Robbins podcast from over the past year. And if you're brand new. I want to welcome you to the Mel Robbins podcast, family. This is the perfect episode for you to listen to as your very first episode because you're going to get a sampling of the experts that we talk to on this podcast every single week, and you're going to love it. The fact is, I get hundreds of messages and emails and comments from you about episodes that hit home all year long, the ones that made you stop in your tracks, the ones that made you replay a clip over and over, the ones that you kept sending to someone that you love. First of all, it was so fun to just dig in and crunch the data and compile this episode. In fact, if you're watching on YouTube, I'm going to hold up this piece of paper.

[00:02:29]
I'm going to describe I'll give it to you. My team assembled. You know when you were in high school and they did the end of the year superlatives where it's like the best this and the best that, the best the other thing or the worst this? I won teacher's pet, by the way. That was my superlative, which means I guess I'm a suck up. Well, we actually, my team, gathered this amazing collage of all of the experts that are featured today. So I feel like it's the Mel Robbins's Yearbook that we're going to be covering today. And we've spent hours reviewing doing these standout moments. We've looked at YouTube, these moments that you just would pause, go back, rewatch. We've looked at the episodes that you shared, that you commented, that you wrote in about. We noticed which experts you were like, Could you have them come back? Here's what I want to say, you and I, we are in for such a treat. I'm excited because I know what you're about to hear. Even just compiling this, I was reminded of the experts that really changed a lot about our to relationships. There were episodes that helped you conquer your fears, stories that made you laugh, cry, or just feel like you're not alone.

[00:03:38]
And so today, we have compiled it all for you, and we're diving into the greatest moments the moments that left the biggest impression on this extraordinary global community. And whether you've been riding with me since the beginning of this podcast two years ago, or you are tuning in for the first time, oh, my gosh, did you pick a winner because you're about to hear the moments that you said made the biggest impact in your life and in the lives of the people that you love. One more thing I want to say before we jump in, because we got a lot to cover today, you and I, is that like every single episode that we do. If you look at the notes of the episode, you're going to find links to every single one of the podcasts that we are discussing today. So you're not going to miss a thing. And in fact, if you're brand new, this is like a playlist that is the best of the so it's the perfect place for you to start, and you can find all those links in the show notes. All righty. So I wanted to start with one of the most viral clips of the entire year.

[00:04:43]
What does that mean? It means this is one of the moments from the podcast this year that you shared more than any other moment. The jury has decided, case is closed. You loved Dr. Tara Swart. She is an incredible MD, PhD, and neuroscientist. Scientist. She's a professor at MIT, and she flew all the way from London to be in our Boston studios to be with you. You loved absolutely everything that she shared in this episode about how to apply neuroscience and the scientific findings in her research around the brain functioning to your life. But holy cow, did you love everything that she shared about stress? And she shared so much with us that I'm going to break this down step by step so you really get it. I mean, this was a moment that when so viral that when you watched the podcast on YouTube, you would literally stop and go backward and play it over and over. And you shared this episode over and over. And so the first thing that you're going to hear is something I had never heard before. And that is the impact that stress has, get this, on your belly fat.

[00:05:48]
And so what you're about to hear is you're about to hear Dr. Tara talk about stress and the evolutionary background of the function of stress. And then we're going to get into this shocking finding that the more stressed out you are, the more that your body creates belly fat. Check this out.

[00:06:07]
So cortisol is known as the stress hormone, and it absolutely correlates with emotions such as fear, anger, disgust, shame and sadness. Cortisol isn't all bad. We need it to wake up in the morning. We need it to have an adaptive stress response to a car driving too fast on the street that we're trying to cross. So as long as it stays within that range, that That's fine. But when something super stressful happens, like the sabre-tooth tiger that we spoke about earlier, the cortisol level will spike, and that enables us to run away, to warn our tribe, and it should go back to normal levels quite quickly. In the modern day, as I mentioned earlier, we're so overwhelmed with information. There are so many psychological threats to our safety that it's... Most people, unfortunately, the levels Cortisols are high, and they're either at the higher end or higher, and that's pretty constant, whereas they should be undulating between that range. When that happens, because cortisol is carried in the blood supply around the body and it crosses the blood-brain barrier, there are receptors in the brain that monitor the levels of cortisol in a way to sense threat in our environment.

[00:07:25]
When those levels are high, most of the time or all the time, or higher than the higher end of the threshold, the brain immediately thinks, I'm about to die. What is the biggest threat to my survival? In some ways, because it's from so long ago, we're wired in such a cave person way, the first threat that the brain will consider is starvation. Even though that's for most of us, thank goodness, not the biggest threat to our survival, in fact, quite the opposite. To try to protect us from dying of starvation, one of the things that cortisol does is lay down extra fat in the abdominal fat cells so that if we are unable to hunt or gather for some time, we can digest that fat and stay alive until the food source becomes available.

[00:08:16]
Wait, so are you saying that stress is causing belly fat?

[00:08:21]
Yeah, it's not just causing fat, it's specifically causing belly fat. So you may not have changed your shape in the rest of your body, but if you're If you're noticing that your belt has become tighter, that's a sign that you could have chronic cortisol. The other thing is that it's fat that's particularly stubborn. If you do notice that the belt is tighter and you think, okay, I definitely need to move a bit more or eat a bit less, and you actually start doing one or both of those things, but the belly fat doesn't change because the cortisol is driving the fat there, regardless of your behavior in the physical world.

[00:08:59]
And that's all initiated in the brain because the brain is picking up on higher levels of cortisol. Yeah. Did you hear that? I mean, that was the first time I had ever heard the connection between stress and belly fat. But it makes so much sense, doesn't it? And so the next thing I was curious about is I asked her, Okay, well, how do high levels of stress impact the functioning of the brain? And check out what she had to say.

[00:09:25]
So I'm going to do brain and body, if that's okay. So think Think this cortisol as a corrosive agent that's literally flowing through your entire brain and body. In the body, it starts to erode your immunity. You might notice more colds and flues more often or ones that last for weeks and weeks. I certainly remember during the financial crisis when I worked with a lot of banks and hedge funds, people saying, I've had this cold for four, six, eight weeks, but everybody has it. I had to say to them, Do you hear what you're saying? That it's not normal to have a cold for six weeks, and this is cortisol. At the extreme end of that, people were dropping dead of heart attacks on trading floors. So lowering your immunity and corroding your body that much can cause everything from colds and flues to heart attacks and cancers. In the brain, what happens is what I call low power mode, like on your phone. So once those receptors know there's an imminent threat to our survival, think of the highest functions of the brain. Thinking creatively, thinking flexibly, solving complex problems, overriding our biases, regulating our emotions.

[00:10:41]
How are those going to serve us now that we're just just trying to survive physically? We don't need those things. Don't send any blood supply to those higher functions. Bring it right down to, get up in the morning, go and sit at your desk, look like you're doing your job, even if you actually can't really do it. This is the reason that Presenteerism costs businesses more than double what absenteeism does. In that low power mode, it'd be better to stay at home for two days and recover and then come back to work and actually function and work with your team.

[00:11:14]
Because stress impairs the higher functioning of the brain.

[00:11:17]
It just moves the blood supply away from it because you're not going to give up your precious resources for functions like that. Just to put that into context for you, Mel, the brain is a tiny organ. It's a tiny percentage of your whole body, maybe 2 or 3 %, but it uses up 20 to 30 % of the breakdown products of what you eat.

[00:11:41]
Wow. Yeah. That's how hard it's working.

[00:11:43]
It's using up 20 % of what you ate that day when you're asleep. It's using up 25 % of what you eat when you're working, managing, leading, running your family, just thinking. Right now, we're probably both using 25 % But if you're stressed, it's using 30 %.

[00:12:02]
It's so fascinating, isn't it? One of the things that I read about in her work is that she has found that stress is contagious. This is a really important concept to understand so you can protect yourself from other people's stress, and you don't catch it because now we know the impact of it. And what you're going to hear her talk about is some research regarding what happens among silverback gorillas, how stress travels in among Silverback Guerillas and how the exact same thing is happening to you and me. Check this out.

[00:12:36]
The Silverback Guerillas stress levels affect the other guerillas more than guerillas of the same status. And so it happens in business, and so it happens in the home. The leader, in quote marks, of the entity, their stress levels will impact other people more than the other way around or people of equal status. So the highly stressed boss as an example, the highly stressed parent. Interesting.

[00:13:08]
Yeah. Well, it makes sense because if you think about it, whether it's in the example of the Silverback or you take a family system or you take a work system, that if the person in charge of your paycheck is stressed out, that their stress is a direct threat to your financial survival. And that's why it triggers you like that. And so that makes a lot sense that stress would be contagious and affect everybody around you. So if stress is contagious, how do you protect yourself from other people's stuff?

[00:13:41]
Well, I think the answer to that is both how do you reduce your own stress if you're the stressed person, and how do you protect yourself from other people's stress? It's mostly through mindfulness activities. So activities that connect the brain and the body, because like I said, the glands in the brain are talking to the adrenal glands and creating this stress situation. So the way to decrease their activity is through activities like meditation, yoga, time in nature, journaling, gratitude, all of those things that reduce levels of cortisol, move your autonomic nervous system, which is a nervous system in your body rather than your brain, from sympathetic, which is fight, flight, fight, to parasympathetic, which is rest and recover, and lower your heartbeat, lower your blood pressure.

[00:14:35]
So simply lowering your own stress insulates you from other people's stress?

[00:14:40]
Yes, but with both versions of it, whether it's your own or others, addressing the root cause is important because what you don't want to be doing is just continually shielding yourself from something that's not changing.

[00:14:52]
This is so important. I don't know about you. I just love the way she explains things when I hear adrenal glands and I hear functioning of the brain. It makes me feel more motivated to want to put up that personal, almost like a force field. That's what you're doing because you don't want to catch your boss's stress. You don't want your spouse or your kids or your remade stress to impact you, and it shouldn't. You want to know another thing that is super effective, at least it has been for me, is saying, let them. The let them theory is another force field that you can create because you can see that somebody else's stress, your boss's, let's just take that situation or maybe your professor and they're going to grade your exams. Their stress, it feels threatening, but it doesn't have to. Dr. Tara taught you that it's contagious and you have to protect yourself from it. I just say, Let them be stressed and I'm going to put the force field up. One other reason why I love this is because she's not just giving you an explanation, she's also handing you a solution.

[00:15:57]
When you not only understand what's going on inside your body or inside someone else's, you can see it coming. It amplifies the reason why simple things like meditation or taking a walk outside or simply taking a deep breath or reminding yourself, let them. Their stress is theirs. It doesn't have to be mine. That's why this is such a game changer. And that's why I think you loved that moment on the podcast as much as I did, because it not only made smarter, it equipped you with what you needed to do. And I love that. And while we're on the topic of stress, that brings me to our next All-Star from this past year, and that is Dr. Addi Nouricar. Now, you loved her. I love her. I feel like she's one of those people that you just want to listen to because you feel like she really gets it. Now, she's been on the show twice this past year. I am definitely going to have her back in 2025 because I can't get enough. Let me share share some of her background with you. Dr. Aditi is a Harvard-trained medical doctor and a renowned authority in stress management and public health.

[00:17:08]
She's a lecturer at Harvard Medical School, and previously, she was the Director of an Integrative Medicine program at Beth Israel Deaconess Hospital that specialized in evidence-based stress management techniques and was one of the largest stress management clinics in the world. Now, every time you listen to Dr. Adidi, you're going to feel like you got both a warm hug and a brain upgrade. Now, on her first appearance this year, she brought the goods. I mean, I'm talking ground-breaking research, simple exercises you could use, mind-blowing realizations that made you really rethink how you handle stress. In this next clip that you're about to hear, she tease up and destroys one of the biggest myths around how you should live your life and be successful right out of the gate. So let's take a listen.

[00:17:58]
One of the biggest myths is that you are meant to be functioning at a high capacity without any need for rest or recovery. That productivity is linear. The more you do, the more you can accomplish, and then the more you do, the more you can accomplish, it's just supposed to be this thing, this feedback loop that's supposed to continue on and on and on. That's a myth. A break is not just a nice to have luxury. Your brain and your body need a break. It is a biological necessity for your brain and body to rest and recover. Human productivity is not linear. It functions on a curve. Think of a bell-shaped curve. The left of the curve, when you don't have a lot of stress, you're not very motivated, you're not very productive. Think about the right side of the curve. So much stress, you are keyed up. Many of us are living on this right side of the curve, right? There is a sweet spot of human productivity right in the middle. It's just right stress. I call it the Goldilocks principle. And it's this idea of we all are to that right of that bell-shaped curve.

[00:19:06]
We are anxious, we have so much stress, we're not productive, we can't focus. It's hard to get things done. So the science suggests that moving back, how do you get to that center spot, the sweet spot of human productivity, is to scale back. But you can't scale back. That's not realistic because we have real constraints. We have constraints on our time. We have obligations with work and parenting. Instead Instead, you have to honor your breaks. How do you scale back? How do you apply the science to your everyday life? You honor your breaks.

[00:19:37]
How do you do that?

[00:19:39]
When you are taking a break during the day, what do most of us do? We mindlessly scroll. We've already talked about what happens with scrolling. This isn't a benign thing that you are doing. You are actively influencing your brain and your body for more stress, right?

[00:19:53]
I want to make sure that you heard the last line that she said, because this is super important. I mean, I'm guilty of scrolling, you're guilty scrolling when you just want to zone out. But what Dr. Addi just said is that when you and I are scrolling, you're actively influencing your brain and body for more stress, which means by scrolling, you're creating more stress for yourself. It's like you're priming your brain and your body to feel more stress. When she said that, I know you had the same reaction, which is, why would I want to create more stress for myself? The reason why this is important is because if you understand the implications of picking up your phone, because we mindlessly do it, maybe you're going to feel more motivated to not do it. And so I asked Dr. Addi, okay, if mindlessly scrolling on your phone creates more stress and it's priming my body and brain to feel more stressed, what the heck should I be doing instead of scrolling? And I want you to take a listen very closely because Dr. Addi is about to walk you through an extraordinarily simple technique that she created, and she's going to explain how she created it as a very stressed out medical school resident.

[00:21:04]
But this is the exact same technique she prescribes when she is working with patients in her clinical practice. Again, this is one of the most renowned and respected doctors in stress on the planet. This is the method she's using with her patients.

[00:21:23]
Try some heart-centered breathing. Take a little walk outside, do some stretches. Touch your toes, stand up, twist, Do something where you're connecting your breath to your movement. Tap into your mind-body connection. Practice Stop breathe B. It's a three-second exercise, and it can help.

[00:21:38]
What is that?

[00:21:39]
The Stop breathe B method, the instructions are in the name. It's a three-second exercise, so you Stop, you breathe, and you be. So you ground your feet on the floor. I learned the Stop, breathe, B. It's a three-second exercise, and it can help- What is that? The Stop, breathe, B method, the instructions are in the name. It's a three-second exercise. So you stop, you breathe, and you B. So you ground your feet on the floor. I learned the Stop, breathe, B method. It was the first technique I learned to reset my mind-body connection when I was in the throes of stress as a stressed a medical resident. I was working 80 hours a week. I was seeing 30 to 40 patients a day. And I brought the Stop, breathe, be method into my life when I would knock on the door of the patient room before I would enter. It was my door knob moment. So as I turned the door knob, I would say to myself, often under my breath in a crowded place, Stop, breathe, be. And then I would enter. And I would do that incrementally over and over and over again, 30, 40 times a day.

[00:22:26]
Over time, I could just do it anywhere. In fact, before we started speaking, I was so excited because I was having a total fan girl moment. Still am. It's been a long time of my amygdala going off. But no, just kidding. I was having a fan girl moment. I'm not kidding about that. And I did stop breathe be. In fact, the entire time that we've been speaking, I've been very aware of my feet on the floor, my posture in the chair, and how I am breathing, because that is important to manage and modulate your stress response. You can practice Stop Breathe Bee during mundane everyday three-day moments of your life. So I did it with the door knob. You can do it between Zoom meetings. Stop, breathe, be.

[00:23:06]
It's a little mini reset.

[00:23:07]
Small micro reset, three seconds. You can practice it when you're brushing your teeth. I have practiced it in the morning when you're getting lunches ready for school, getting everything ready. I do it always at the door knob before I'm about to go into the garage to do school bus stop, drop off, stop, breathe, be. And I think, oh, my God, we forgot the project. Did you bring your hat? Oh, we need to get this. We need to get that. It's just the reset that you need. And the reason the Stop, Breathe, B method works so well is because anxiety and anxious thoughts are a future-focused emotion. It is about what if? What if this happens? What if that happens? What if I fail? What if I can't do well? What if, what if, what if? And Stop, Breathe, B gets you out of what if thinking and gets you back into what is.

[00:23:53]
Amazing. Stop, Breathe, B. I mean, what could be more simple? But it really is powerful. I'm going to tell you, ever since Dr. Addi taught you and me that, I've been using it. You can use it any time you want. You just feel yourself start spiraling. You feel the stress kick in. You feel yourself getting nervous. I always just put my hand on my heart. It's almost like I signal myself, Okay, we're going to do this. And I stop, I take a breath in, and I just be there in the moment. Now, I have used this when I'm driving in a car. I've used this before I grab my wallet to pay for something. If I feel myself getting nervous about something, I use it as I grab the handle of the fridge because oftentimes I'm like, going to the fridge because I'm stressed. Stop, breathe, B. You can be at your laptop. You can have just finished a video conference call or a Zoom meeting, and it was a little stressful, and now you're like, oh, my God. So before you close the laptop, just stop, breathe, B. You can do anywhere. And what I love about this technique from Dr. Addi, and I said this earlier, this is the exact same technique that she is giving and teaching to her patients.

[00:25:12]
She prescribes this as a Harvard medical doctor running one of the largest stress management clinics in the world. And it works because it creates a micromoment of peace in your life, a moment where you can take control, where you can hit that reset. And since we're talking about taking breaks, this feels like the perfect time to hit the pause button and give our amazing sponsors a chance to share a few words with you. But don't go anywhere, because after we take this short break, I'm going to be waiting for you, and we have the single most popular topic of the entire year, and about seven more amazing experts waiting for you after a short break. Stay with us. Welcome back. It's your friend Mel Robbins. I'm so glad you're here with me because we are covering your favorite moments from the podcast of the entire year. Now, if you had asked me, Mel, what do you think the most popular topic of the year is going to be of the entire Mel Robbins podcast? I probably would have said something like, I don't know, motivation, relationships. I would not have thought it was menopause, and here's why.

[00:26:26]
The listeners of the Mel Robbins podcast are all ages all over the world. And so I wouldn't have thought that it would have been a topic that impacts women of a certain age. But the fact is you have a mom, you have older sisters, you have people in your life that are going through this, maybe it's your wife. This became our most popular episode, not only because the topic is relevant to people in your life, but because the expert was absolutely extraordinary. Who am I talking about? I'm talking about the one and only Dr. Mary Claire Haver. Now, Dr. Haver is a board-certified certified OB-Gen and a menopause expert. She's also a two-time New York Times best-selling author. She specializes in women's health and is a certified menopause practitioner. She's also the best-selling author of the brand new book, The New Menopause, which is packed with all these accessible insights into navigating this journey. Every single day, 6,000 women in the United States alone enter menopause. And menopause, for a lot of us, is a phase that you dread. And Dr. Haver, she helps you move from dreading it to feeling empowered. And let me tell you something.

[00:27:37]
After this conversation, I'm sure either you or the people that you forwarded this to felt the exact same thing. Holy cow, why didn't anybody ever tell me this? I found the off switch for my hot flashes. I unlocked the door to better sleep. I started feeling like I loved my body again. Why? Because of all the things that Dr. Haver explained in plain English. She's saying, No, this is not a time where you're put out to pasture. This is a time where you got to kick it up into high gear because you can thrive. Her groundbreaking approach insists that no one should be suffering through this phase of your life because you're going to spend a third of your life in menopause. This episode sparked not just a movement for women navigating menopause, but also for people who love and support them. There were so many important moments in this conversation that this This would be a very good one to listen to the whole thing if you hadn't heard it, and certainly send the link to everybody that you love that is approaching menopause or in menopause. But I selected this moment because it's the most comprehensive tactical advice which is what we all want to hear.

[00:28:46]
What you're going to hear Dr. Haver cover is she's going to cover the top three things that she recommends to her patients that they need to be eating. She's going to talk to you about the specific type of exercise that you need to be doing if you're in menopause. She's going to give you tips about getting a better night's sleep. She's got a very, very important warning about your phone and about alcohol, which is something you need to hear. She's going to kick all of this information off by talking about the three things she recommends that every woman in menopause needs to be eating. Check this out.

[00:29:18]
If I had my top three things I would recommend to everyone. Yes. Fiber. Track your fiber for a couple of weeks. Get a nutrition tracker. See where you're at. Fiber does so much in our bodies. Number one, feeds the gut microbiome. That's its food.

[00:29:30]
So that's the prebiotic. Give me an example of what fiber is.

[00:29:35]
Légumes. Who? Berry. Oh, légumes. Beans. Okay. Beans. It's a class of beans. Peanuts are actually légumes Well, typically really high in fiber. Okay. Berries, really high in fiber. Seeds and nuts, really high in fiber. Those are avocado. That's my go-to to make sure I'm getting my fiber goal. It also has healthy fats and other vitamins and minerals and Mag, magnesium.

[00:30:02]
This confuses me because I'm not quite sure what type of magnesium to take.

[00:30:07]
Oh, great question. Your glycinates, your tarrates, your citrates, and eltheronates are good because They're readily absorbed into the bloodstream. So now we have nice magnesium levels in our blood. There's also benefit, some of them are better than others, about crossing that blood-brain barrier. So Magl thurinate, which Magteen or Neuromag or the brand names, has been studied in SSRI-resistant depression. So any resistant depression in patients. They've added in this. It seemed to be helpful. And my patients, in followers, it's so helpful for sleep, anxiety. So I'm often recommending that one at night.

[00:30:55]
And what one was that one?

[00:30:57]
Magnesium L-3-8.

[00:30:59]
Okay, so So you're saying fiber is number one, magnesium is number two. How do you get magnesium naturally?

[00:31:05]
So pumpkin seeds, spinach, leafy greens are rich in mag, generally. I have a lot of lists on my website where we list all this stuff. Great.

[00:31:13]
We will link to all this. And what's the third thing?

[00:31:15]
So I'm always looking at omega-3 fatty acids. Omegas are usually found in fatty fish, also in flax. One of my favorite ways, I'll do this little yogurt, and I'll have flax, hemp, and chia seeds. So I'm just hitting all my antioxidants, my anti-inflammatory, my fiber, all in one. So omega-3s, if you can't get a good source of that, that's a very reasonable thing to supplement every day. One of the richest sources of that is going to be your salmon, your mackrel, your tuna, your fatty fish, your cold water fish. And then I check a vitamin D level on every woman who will let me stick a needle in her. Eighty % of my patients, not just low, I mean, deficient. And there's a million reasons for this. We don't absorb it very well because our gut health declines. We're protecting our skin from the sun, which is another place. And we're not really creating it in our skin as fast as we used to. So and vitamin D is a hormone that has a million processes in the body. So I'm like, let's start here and get those vitamin D levels up because you're just not working as efficiently as you could.

[00:32:19]
Again, about 70, 80% of my patients have an unexplained no changes in diet or exercise, rise in cholesterol, absolutely secondary to estrogen efficiency. Again, rushing to put her on a statin will make her cholesterol go down, but is not going to decrease her risk of cardiovascular disease. Women who are on HRT have higher HDLs and lower LDLs than women who are not when you compare the two groups. Just being menopausal is an independent risk factor for an unhealthy cholesterol profile.

[00:32:52]
What exercise is critical?

[00:32:55]
I grew up in the '80s, and I was the cardio queen. I did so many step aerobics classes, I taught them. It would make your head spin.

[00:33:02]
I did not- I can actually see that. I did not- I would take a step aerobics class with you.

[00:33:07]
All of my exercise was to be thin and to maintain a certain body shape that was part of my social currency. And if I could go back and talk to what I tell my children all the time, we need to move our bodies to be strong, not skinny, and that we are chipping away this constant caloric restriction and all this cardio is chipping away at our bone and muscle strength, which we are going to desperately need as we age, especially if you're built like me. And I didn't pick up weights until I was well into my 40s. There's never too late. Anybody listening at any age can start weight training, and you should. So I think that getting people to let go of this notion that thin is the way to be and that you're way better off having a little more curves and a lot more muscle is going to serve you in these menopausal years so much better than just being And if you're having a hard time sleeping, what do you recommend? We have to look at why you're having a hard time. Progesterone goes a long way to helping us sleep.

[00:34:14]
Estrogen leads to hot flashes and night sweats, which are completely sleep disruptive. I mean, even with hormone therapy, I still have a thermometer leg that I have to throw out occasionally.

[00:34:25]
A thermometer leg. I was just talking to a friend this morning. She's like, Oh, Well, I just stick my leg out and the fan hits it, and that's how I cool myself down.

[00:34:33]
And then you just throw it back in, throw it out, throw it back in. So I'm like, okay, let's get you on some estrogen. So say she's had a hysterectomy and she doesn't have to have progesterone. Progesterone is an option. So I'm like, people sleep deeper. It has an anexiolytic effect.

[00:34:50]
What does that word mean?

[00:34:50]
So anti-anxiety.

[00:34:52]
Anti-anexiolytic effect?

[00:34:54]
Yeah, sorry. Wow, that was a big one. Anti-anxiety effect. So if your sleep disruption is all So you're having racing thoughts at night, you can't shut that brain off.

[00:35:04]
Yes. This is my daughter.

[00:35:06]
Progesterone is beautiful for these women, especially in perimenopause, when we're skipping ovulations and we're not given that monthly surge of progesterone.

[00:35:15]
Is this an option for somebody who's even before perimenopause?

[00:35:18]
Perimenopause, you could. Yeah. Yeah, you can safely take progesterone every day, even if you're premenopausal. Wow. It can be really helpful.

[00:35:26]
Wow.

[00:35:26]
All right. So estrogen, progesterone. But also sleep hygiene, We can't negate the fact that we're on our phones too much at night, the blue light, not setting up an environment for good sleep, a snoring partner, especially some of us, and all the things we need to do to set ourselves up for success for sleep. Then when you sprinkle in the hormone changes, it's a disaster for some women. That's really something I zero in on with my patients.

[00:35:50]
What do we need to know about alcohol?

[00:35:52]
I don't know any woman who's in her menopausal journey who is processing alcohol the way she used to. The tolerance seems to be going down, I'm excited to see some more research come out about this. But in my world, I have to go in my personal experience. If I'm choosing to have a drink, I am choosing not to sleep. I'm going to be up at 3:00, 2:32, 3:31, whatever it is, and it is like a bomb going off, even one glass. And I have to make that choice. I can't drink like I used to. Thank God. Those college days. Most of the women in my practice and on social media are commenting. Every time I talk about it, they're like, Yep, gave it up.

[00:36:33]
It's not worth it. And that's just the tip of the iceberg in terms of the amount of information that Dr. Haver shared with all of us. And so I really encourage you to check that one out. One of the things that she mentioned is brain fog. That brings me to our next All-Star from this past year, and I'm talking about none other than Dr. Wendy Suzuki. Now, Dr. Suzuki is a world-renowned neuroscientist, and it was crazy She brought a real human brain to our studios in Boston. It was an unbelievable experience to have her in the studio and to hold a brain and to see a brain. I mean, it weighs more than you think, and it makes you think very differently about your brain. Now, Dr. Suzuki is the Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences at New York University, and she's done all of this groundbreaking research in areas of memory and brain plasticity. You love that episode because it covered the simple things that you can do every single day to improve your learning, your focus, memory, and your brain power. What was so cool about her, and probably one of the reasons why you loved her so much, it certainly is why I loved her so much, is that she made neuroscience not only easy to understand, but she put so much heart into it.

[00:37:54]
She just loves the brain, but she somehow makes this very nerdy and intellectual topic human. Of course, she had specific advice about things that you can do every day to support your brain health, and you can check them all out if you listen to the episode, which is linked in the show notes. But the one moment that you really loved was one that related to her father. Dr. Suzuki told this just absolutely moving story about the fact that her father was starting to suffer from dementia. Because she's a neuroscientist, she actually was recognizing all the signs. Every single time she saw him, there was something that she really wanted to do that she had never done. What was it? She wanted to tell her father that she loved him before it was too late. And so she told this beautiful story about the very first time that she told her father that she loved him and helped him create a new memory, even though he was now struggling with dementia. But how this one thing changed her entire family dynamic as well. I'm going to warn you, you're probably going to want to get out the tissues because I'm going to let Dr. Wendy Suzuki tell you the story.

[00:39:11]
My father, very smart guy who was an engineer. And one day, he drove back from the 711, that's only about eight blocks from our house. He would go there to get his afternoon cup of coffee. He told my mom that he had a hard time finding his way back home. That's the spatial memory that's so dependent on the hippocampus. And as a hippocampal expert, when my mother told me that, I knew immediately there was a problem with his hippocampus. That is the structure that is first effective in dementia, including Alzheimer's dementia. And that is what he ended up being diagnosed with. I wish I could say, so therefore I had him immediately on an exercise plan. He He was in his early '80s, maybe late '70s when that happened. I can't remember exactly his age. He was a little bit wobbly on his feet. He did like going for a walk, so he would go do that. But there was a little bit of danger As we all know with older people, there's a little risk-taking. Again, going back to social interaction, the more time that I could spend with him, the more time that we can get him together with family, where he came alive and he could think and talk about all the memories that he had, is a great way to go.

[00:40:35]
As Japanese-Americans, I'm third-generation Japanese-American. My parents are second-generation Japanese-Americans. Other Japanese-Americans out there will know. We don't say I love you to each other, not because we don't love each other. It's just that you don't have to say that. It's just not part of our culture. But when my father had this dementia diagnosis, I was like, Gosh, you know what? I want to start saying it. But it's very awkward when you're an adult child and you've never said, I love you to your parents as an adult, do you just blurt it out? It's like, what should I do? I had a long internal conversation about this, and I realized that I should ask permission. Let's talk about it. And I didn't want to say, because you have dementia, I want to say, I love you. I was like, let's keep it light. Let's just ask. But I wanted to do it for my mom and my dad. And I would call every Sunday. And when I called, my mom would always answer the phone, and I would tell her about the week, and then she would hand the phone to my dad, and I'd tell him all the same stories.

[00:41:39]
And then that's how the conversation went. But this Sunday, I decided I'm going to ask whether we can start saying I love you for the first time in our whole adult lives. So it started out normally. And at some point in the middle, I said, Mom, I realized we never say I love you at the end of these conversations. What do you think about saying, I love you? Silence. Silence on the other end of the phone. What is she asking me? She's never asked me that before. And of course, I was just terrified that she would say no, because because she might. I mean, she may not be comfortable. I didn't know. I'd never asked her that question before. But after what seemed like hours, it was just a few seconds, she said, I think that's a great idea. I said, Oh, okay, great. And so we finished up our conversation, and then both of us realized at the same time, I think, that we had nothing more to say to each other. And we both knew that we had both agreed to say this thing. I describe it as it felt like two lions circling each other.

[00:42:51]
What's going to happen? Who goes first? And it was my ask. So I said, okay, I love you. And she said, I love you, too, in our very Disney voices, so we can get through it. And so I had the conversation with my dad And it was a little less awkward with him because I knew my mom said yes. I knew my dad would say yes. And so we agreed with my dad. We said, I love you, hung at the phone, and burst into tears because I had changed the whole family dynamic of generations of not saying, I love you. And that was a tipping point in my family history from not saying I love you to saying I love you. But the reason why I started telling the story is that the following week I called back again in my, I'll love you with my mother was significantly less awkward. But my father said, I love you first. And he remembered after a whole week. He was in the middle of dementia. He didn't remember anything. But he remembered that we had agreed to say, I love you. And he said it first. And because I'm a neuroscientist that studies memory, I know why.

[00:44:25]
And it's because emotional resonance makes hippocampal couple dependent memories stick, and his hippocampus was not working well. But the emotional resonance of his adult daughter asking for the very first time to say, I love you, it formed a new memory in my dad. And That was obviously something that I'll always remember because the last time I spoke to him, we also said, I love you.

[00:44:55]
Oh, my gosh. Especially for those of you that have somebody in your life that you love that is struggling with memory issues or dementia or Alzheimer. I mean, what an unbelievably moving story. I am so proud of Dr. Suzuki, and I'm so grateful that she shared that story with us, right? Because it's a beautiful reminder of something that Dr. Suzuki had said earlier, and that is that the brain is a mind-blowingly complex, ridiculously brilliant, and let's be real, magical thing. What you learn with Dr. Suzuki is that you can change it. If you're listening to this right now and you're feeling stuck in a family dynamic that's driving you nuts or you wish you were the family that said, I love you, You need to hear this. You can change this. It only takes one person to start shifting things, and that one person could be you. Now, we have four more extraordinary experts that made the All-Star list. The person that you're about to meet next is somebody that is revolutionizing the way that we're treating mental health issues. His name is Dr Chris Palmer. I waited to get him on the Mel Robbins podcast for months because I knew he would make you look at the way you need to think about mental health in an entirely new way.

[...TRUNCATED FOR PART 1...] 