[In the first scene of the special we see Seinfield arriving at New York's Beacon Theater after taking on a secret-agent persona and jumping out of a helicopter into the Hudson River]

Helicopter Pilot: Mr. Seinfeld, you have a show tonight, don't ya?

Jerry Seinfeld: Yes, I do.

Pilot: They're telling me there's too much traffic to land right now.

Seinfeld: Oh.

Pilot: What do you want me to do?

Seinfeld: No problem. You can let me out anywhere along here.

Thank you! Thank you very much!

Oh, my God. What a moment. What a feeling. What an accomplishment this is… on your part. What you just went through… going out, dealing with… natural obstacles of life. Difficult people, arranging, planning. Annoying friends, many of whom you're sitting with right now… …who, for some reason, required unnecessarily complicated back-and-forth, communicating about "Who's going?" "When do we leave?" and "How do we get there?" "Why don't you pick me up?" "Why don't I pick you up?" "It's on the way." "It's the opposite direction." "My car." "Your car." "One car." "Two cars." "When are we gonna eat? Did you eat? I didn't eat." "Are you gonna eat? I'm starving." "I'm stuffed." "I've been eating Jolly Ranchers all day. I need something solid." "What about the tickets? Who's got the tickets? Do you have the tickets?"

How many times did you hear the word "tickets" today? "Don't forget the tickets." "You have the tickets?" "Yeah, I got the tickets!" "Did you get their tickets?" "I didn't get tickets for them. They gotta get their own tickets! They didn't pay me from the last time I got 'em tickets."

Why are your friends so annoying? The people you have chosen to be with in life. It makes no sense. You'd get rid of all of 'em in a second… if it wasn't even a bigger pain in the ass to find new people, learn about their annoying problems that they never do anything about… …change the names and numbers in your phone, delete the old contacts. "Ah, the hell with it. I'll ride it out with these idiots. It's the same meals, holidays, and movies anyway. What's the difference who I'm with?" "Just wanna be out."

This is out. People talk about goin' out. "We should go out. Let's go out. We never go out." Well… this is it. Now, the good thing about being out is you don't have to be out for long. Just long enough to get the next feeling, which you're all gonna get. And that feeling is, "I gotta be gettin' back." After all the work you put into getting your ass where it is right now… you're only halfway through this nightmare at this point.

Wherever you are, really, anywhere in life, at some point, you gotta get the hell outta there. You're at work; you wanna get home. You're at home. "I'm working all week. I gotta get out." You're out, and it's late. "I gotta get back." "I gotta get up." "I gotta get to the airport." "When are we getting on the plane?" Plane takes off. "When's the plane gonna land?" Plane lands. "Why don't they open the door so we can get out?"

Nobody wants to be anywhere. Nobody likes anything. We're cranky, we're irritable, and we're dealing with it by constantly changing locations. And so… we come up with things like this, what we're doing right now. This is a made-up, bogus, hyped-up, not-necessary special event. That's what this is. That a lot of people worked very hard to put together so that we could all just kill some time.

That's why I'm here. I had nothing to do either, by the way. I can tell you that. You know me. You and I… Come on, you and I know each other on a certain level… electronic, though it may be… for many, many years, at this point. We're going through life together. A beautiful thing. You know what I've done. You know what I've made. You know how I live. You know for a fact… I could be anywhere in the world right now! Now, you be honest. If you were me, would you be up here, hacking out another one of these? Maybe… or maybe not. Nonetheless, I am thrilled to be here. I love it here. This could be my favorite spot in the entire world, right here, right now. Could be.

[Woman] We love you!

Thank you, sweetheart. I love you too. This is, in fact, my favorite type of intimate relationship. I love you, you love me, and we will never meet. Yeah, Jerry!

It's all things we do to convince ourselves our lives don't suck. That's another thing this is. You'll be going tomorrow, "My life doesn't suck. I saw a comedian who had a show in the '90s last night at the Beacon Theatre on Broadway, in New York City." Even though your life does pretty much suck. And I know that because I know that everyone's life sucks. Your life sucks. My life sucks, too. Perhaps not quite as much. But still, in the vast suckness… of human life, everyone's life sucks. It's okay. Never feel bad that your life sucks. The greatest lesson you can learn in life: "Sucks" and "great" are pretty close. They're not that different.

We live here in New York. Over here, I'm so sick of hearing about great restaurants. "Jerry, we went to a great restaurant last night. It was great. You would love it. He would love it. Wouldn't he love it? You would love it." "You." You know how your friends single you out? "You. Wouldn't he? He would love that place." "Did you like it?" "I didn't care for it myself, but you…" I don't like the great restaurants. I don't like great anything. I'm looking for not bad. "How's that food?" "It's not bad." "That sounds great. Let's go over there and get this over with." "Wanna hear the specials?" "No. If they're so special, put 'em on the menu. I'm not interested in food that's auditioning to get on the team." I don't know what the hell you're talkin' about. "We're gonna pan-sear it. We're gonna herb-crust it. We're gonna drizzle it with something that's a reduction of somethin' else." Stop drizzling. We can't take the drizzling anymore! It's too much drizzling! Maybe if you didn't reduce it so much, you wouldn't have to drizzle it!

The meal takes two and a half hours. Your ass is hurtin' by the end of it. It's not half as good as a bowl of Lucky Charms and Pepsi anyway. Check always comes in that book, the little story of the bill. Yeah, here's the story. Once upon a time, you got rib. That's the story. You're on the street afterwards with your friends, "I-I didn't think that was… Was that great?" Everyone says "great." "Yeah, I didn't think it was that great. What did you think?" "It sucked, right? That place sucks." A lot of great places just suck! Then you go to a baseball game. You have a hot dog. The hot dog is cold. The bun is not toasted. The vendor is an ex-con in a work-release program. You love that hot dog every time. Does it… Does it suck? Yes. Is it great? Yes. That's how close they are!

"Sucks" and "great" are the only two ratings people even give to anything anymore. "Hey, let's go see that new movie. I heard it's great." "Really? I heard it sucked." "How could it suck? It's supposed to be great." "I heard the beginning is great, and then after that, it sucks." "Oh, that sucks." "I know. It coulda been great." I say that "sucks" and "great" are the exact same thing. You have an ice cream cone. Walking down the street, the ice cream falls off the top of the cone, hits the pavement. Sucks. What do you say? "Great."

Food's a good subject. Let's talk a little bit more about this. 'Cause we were in Vegas a couple months ago. And everybody goes, "Jerry, you gotta go to the buffet. They got the buffet. Oh, come on. You can get whatever you want at the buffet." What is the idea of the buffet? "Well, things are bad. How could we make it worse? Why don't we put people that are already struggling with portion control… …into some kind of debauched, Caligula food orgy of unlimited human consumption? Let's make the entrance a chocolate-syrup water park slide." The buffet is like taking your dog to Petco and letting your dog do the shopping. You give him your wallet in the parking lot and go, "Why don't you go in, get whatever you think… is the right amount of dog food for you? Use your dog judgment. I'm gonna wait in the car. Leave the window open a crack so I can breathe."

People do not do well in an unsupervised eating environment. Nobody would walk into a restaurant and say, "I'll have a yogurt parfait, sparerib, meat pie, crab leg, four cookies, and an egg-white omelet." People are building death-row last meal wish lists on these plates. It's like a perfect working model of all their emotional problems and personal difficulties. They just walk around. They just kinda hold it out. "This is what I'm dealing with. It's a salad with a scoop of ice cream on it. I've got some unresolved issues I'm trying to work out here at the buffet." Start accosting strangers. "Excuse me. Where did you get that? What is that? I didn't even see that. What is that? Is that a caramelized chicken leg? I gotta try that. Give me yours. You know where they are. You can get more. Come on!" Let's…

Please. Please. Please stay with the group as much as you can. We're gonna be going through a lot of exhibits. I don't want any stragglers.

But when I was a kid, the biggest food thing that happened to me… When they invented the Pop-Tart, the back of my head blew right off. We couldn't comprehend the Pop-Tart! It was too advanced! We saw it in the supermarket. It was like an alien spaceship. We were just chimps in the dirt, playing with sticks. Just… …grunting, pointing. "Pop-Tart is here."

Think back to when the Pop-Tart came out. It was the '60s. We had toast! We had orange juice, frozen decades in advance. You had to hack away at it with a knife! It was like a murder to get a couple of drops of liquidity in the morning. We had shredded wheat. It was like wrapping your lips around a woodchipper. You'd have breakfast, you had to take two days off for the scars to heal so you could speak. My mom made Cream of Wheat. She didn't get the recipe. "Mom, the amount of water in this dish is critical. You're making it too thick! I can't even move my little-kid spoon in the bowl! I'm seven. I feel like I'm rowing in the hull of a Greek slave ship. That was breakfast?" And in the midst of that dark and hopeless moment, the Kellogg's Pop-Tarts suddenly appeared out of Battle Creek, Michigan, which, as you cereal fans know, is the corporate headquarters of Kellogg's and a town I have always wanted to visit… because it seems like a cereal Silicon Valley… of breakfast super scientists… conceiving of the frosted, fruit-filled, heatable rectangles in the same shape as the box it comes in… and with the same nutrition as the box it comes in, too. That was the hard part. I don't know how long it took to invent, but they must've come out of that lab like Moses with the two tablets of the Ten Commandments. "The Pop-Tart is here! Two in the packet! Two slots in a toaster! Let's see ya screw this up! Why two? One's not enough. Three's too many. And they can't go stale, 'cause they weren't ever fresh."

[...CONTINUED IN PART 2...] 