[...CONTINUED FROM PART 2...]

I got married late in life. I was 45. I had some issues. I was enjoying those issues quite a bit, as I recall. When I was single, I had married friends. I would not visit their homes. I found their lives to be pathetic and depressing. Now that I'm married, I have no single friends. I find their lives to be meaningless and trivial experiences. In both cases, I believe I was correct. Whichever side of marriage you're on, you don't get what the other people are doing. I can't hang out with single guys. You don't have a wife, we have nothing to talk about. You have a girlfriend? That's Wiffle ball, my friend. You're playing paintball war; I'm in Afghanistan with real, loaded weapons. Married guys play with full clips and live rounds. This is not a drill. Single guy's sitting on a merry-go-round, blowin' on a pinwheel! I'm drivin' a truck full of nitro down a dirt road.

You single guys here tonight, looking at me, "Hey, Jerry, what if I wanna be a married guy like you? What do I gotta have if I wanna be a married guy?" I'll tell you. You better have some answers, buddy. You better have some answers for that woman. Women have a lot of questions. Their brains are strong, active, and on high alert at all times. You're sleeping. She's researching. The female brain is cookin' all the time! The female brain is one of the most competent and capable organs in all of the biological universe. Girl power. You're goddamn right. There's nothing the female brain cannot do. It will solve all problems of earth and… life. Having completed that, it will move on to the hypothetical. Theoretical situations… that may or may not occur. The female needs to know how you might respond. "If you faked your own death, and I found out about it, what would you say then?" "What are we talkin' about now?" "Oh, I dreamt the whole thing last night, so don't deny it."

Being married is like being on a game show, and you're always in the lightning round. I went out and bought a game-show podium. I set it up in my living room. I wake up in the morning, and I stand behind the podium, tryin' to answer all my wife's questions and get on with the goddamn day. I got a hand button-clicker. "I'll take 'Movies I Think We Saw Together' for 200." My wife, of course, is the returning champion from last week. "I'll take 'Details of a Ten-Minute Conversation We Had at Three O'Clock in the Morning Eight Years Ago.' And I would like to bet everything I have on that, Alex. I'm going for the win right here." The husband, of course, never has a clue. "I'm sorry, sir. You did not win the weekend sex package… …or the guilt-free televised sporting event. Thank you for playing. Are you even listening to me? And don't forget to take that big bag of garbage with you on your way out… of the studio."

One of the things I did not know before I got married that I found out after I got married is that every single day of my married life, I would be discussing the tone of my voice. I was not aware, as a single man, that I so often speak in the incorrect tone. I thought it was a marriage. Apparently, it's a musical. I walk around the house with one of those round, black glee-club things. How 'bout that one? Am I gettin' closer? "It's your tone." "My tone?" "Yes, your tone." "What's wrong with my tone?" "I don't like your tone." "What do you want me to…?" "You better change your tone!" Ever heard that?

And women are correct, as they always are. The male tone changes over the course of the relationship. In the beginning, as the male pursues the female, in the courting or flirting phase, we speak two octaves higher. We raise our voice two octaves. We talk like this in the beginning. Because Chinese food or Italian sounds great. Maybe we'll take a drive or go for a walk.

My actual speaking voice that I am using right now to communicate with you is not welcome in my house. That's why I'm out here talkin' to you. Do you think that I talk like this… in my house, with this authority? The little edge in my voice? You think I speak like that in my house? I do not. If I walked into my own house, which I paid for, by the way. Not relevant, just wanted to mention it. If I said, like this… If I said, "I gotta get somethin' to eat!" If I said it like that… First of all, any guy I know would say, "Eat whatever the hell you want. I don't care what you eat." Any woman will say, "Why are you yelling at me?" "I'm not yelling! I'm just hungry!" And then the fight breaks out, and when the fight breaks out, now you're white-water kayaking. You got a plastic helmet on. You're goin' under. You're poppin' up. Just keep paddling.

That's when the woman's tone of voice changes. Yes, the women are included in this, too. All women, at some point in every argument with the man, like to imitate the voice of the man. In the amazing organizational system that women have, they have all somehow worked out to do the same impression. "You always say, 'Oh no, I can't do things like that. That's not what I said I was gonna do.' You said, 'I might go.' You said, 'Definitely go.' 'Oh, I don't think… I don't think that I'd feel comfortable.' You go, 'Oh, with your friends. We're goin' with your friends.' It's not like my friends. With my friends, you say, 'Oh, I don't think that I could…'" Who the hell is this guy? Where did you see this guy? I never heard anyone talk like this. "That's because you don't hear yourself. You should hear how you sound. You go, 'Oh, I don't think… You know.'" It reminds me of that Lollipop Guild guy: ♪ Oh, we represent the Lollipop Guild ♪

It's all about listening. Want some marriage advice? Ya better listen up! A lot of wives complain that their husbands do not listen. I have never heard my wife say this. She may have. I don't know, but… here's what I do know. Ladies, your husband wants to make you happy. He's workin' on it! He's planning it. He's thinking about it every second. He cannot do it. He cannot do it. He does not know how to do it. Sometimes, we do it. We don't know how we did it. We can't ask, "What did I do?" That looks like you don't know what you're doing. Can't do nothing. Woman says, "I can't believe you're doing this." Man says, "Doing what?" Woman starts crying. Man says, "I didn't do anything." Woman says, "Exactly."

So, it's a bit of a chess game, isn't it? Except, the board is flowing water… and all the chess pieces are made of smoke. And you're not alone. Don't ever forget that in marriage. Society, culture, technology, even, is helping you on your journey of marriage. In your car, for example, dual-zone, separate buttons, on each side, climate control systems. Gee, I wonder if it was a married person that thought of that… and thought, "Hey, this could potentially come in handy if you're with someone you're legally bound to for the rest of your life and you need them to shut the hell up." "I'm freezin'! I'm roastin'! I'm boilin'! It's blowin' on me!" When my wife says, "The air is on me," it is the equivalent of a normal person saying, "A bear is on me." That's the emergency level. And I respond at that level, too. "Oh, my God. An evil breeze from a hostile vent is attacking my mate and life partner, who incidentally bore me three children without anesthesia. Probably could have caught the babies herself if no one was around, but cannot survive a waft of air three degrees off her optimum desired temperature."

And I'm sure this stupid dual-zone thing totally works, too, to keep different-temperature air molecules from commingling inside a three-foot wide, closed compartment of an automobile. Because I go to my coffee place in the morning… I like to get my coffee black on the left side of the cup, cream and sugar on the right, and that's no problem.

Or you go to fancy restaurants. Sometimes they say, "Do you want still or sparkling water?" I go, "Both. Same glass, keep 'em separate. I do it in my car all the time."

Here's a marriage moment I saw for real. Husband in the car, wife on the sidewalk. He's picking her up after work. He did not bring the car to a full and complete stop! She had the door open. She was hopping on one foot… …trying to get some kind of leverage on the armrest of… You can only get one foot in a moving car. One can only imagine the spirited exchange of ideas… that took place in that car the rest of the drive home.

But that's what marriage is. It's two people… trying to stay together without saying the words "I hate you." Which you're not allowed to say. Okay? You can't say that. You can feel it. That's okay. Don't let it come… …out. Say something else. Anything. Say, "Why is there never any Scotch Tape in this goddamn house?" "Scotch" is "I," "tape" is "hate," "house" is "you." But it's better.

You don't say, "I could kill you right now." You say, "You're so funny sometimes."

"So, Jerry, we would like to understand in a little more detail exactly how you pulled this off, 'cause we… We saw that you were, uh, just a single, regular, bachelor guy, 45 years. And then all of a sudden, you just… You just turned on a dime. Marriage, wife, kids, family. How'd you navigate that? How'd you acclimate? How did you procreate and cohabitate, learning to accommodate so as not to aggravate?" It's a very good question, because a man in marriage will not survive if he does not have a strong brain-to-speech guard-gate control filtration system.

You don't just talk in marriage! It's risky. When I'm with my wife, who I love so dearly, and a thought enters my head, the first thing I think is, "Well, I know I can't say that." Maybe I could say I heard someone else say it. And then she and I can share a warm moment together, agreeing on what an idiot that person must be. And we get along great.

So, we have three kids. I told you that. We just came back from a lovey family vacation, or what I like to call: "Let's pay a lot of money to go fight in a hotel." I don't know what the hell else we were doing. Let's fight on bikes. "I'm gonna kill you." "I'm gonna kill you more." Let's use profanity on a pristine, white-sand beach. Let's fight about how well-behaved those other children seem to be. I wonder if they were out on the hotel balcony last night with 12-dollar minibar cashews, trying to hit the other guests in the head.

So, my daughter is, uh, my oldest. She's 18, and she just, uh, finished high school, went off to college. Big… That's kind of a big, you know, step when you're parents. Thank you. We did a great job. She finished high school. So, a lot of people… You know, everybody's asking me, "How do you feel, Jerry? You know, first kid leaving the house?" And I'm good. I'm okay. I'm okay. The way I look at it, it's like if you somehow found a baby alligator and you put it in your tub, and everybody would… "Look at this. I found this. Baby alli… Look. Put your finger in his mouth. Feel the teeth? Little teeth, little bitey, bitey teeth." And then time passes, and you go, "You know, I think we gotta get this thing the hell outta here. This is, uh… This doesn't feel right anymore. This thing is… it's scary. This thing needs to be out there, murdering other living things and eating them. That… that's what it's supposed to do."

But I love being a dad. I was there at the birth. Obviously, the most dramatic human life moment. Anytime two people walk into a room, and three come out… a major event took place in that room. At the end of life, we go back basically into the same room, same bed, same stuff around. And again, a different number of people coming out than went in, but that is the human-being business. We gotta turn inventory, fresh product, keep the supply chain moving. We gotta get 'em in. We gotta get 'em out. That's the hospital's job. It's rest, cleanliness. If it doesn't work out, we help you move on. It says "hospital" when you walk in, but it could also be "Bed Bath & Beyond."

'Cause the babies never stop coming. Babies don't care. You think babies care that the world's a mess, you have issues? "We're comin' in! We want in!" They come in like racks of fresh doughnuts. More babies. More babies. More babies. Why are they here? They are here to replace us. That is their mission. Don't you see what's happening? They're pushing us out. Their first words are "mama," "dada," and "buh-bye." "Oh, we'll see who's wearing the diapers when this is all over." That's what the babies are thinking.

But again, the father, struggling to keep pace. Moms that are here, we want to be what you want us to be. We can't do it! We want to do it. The baby's born. I remember… It's just the most amazing thing. For the female, just these instincts just kick in. For the man, nothing kicks in. He's just the same guy, standin' there. It was years into my children's lives, I'd see them staring at me from across the room like they were gonna come and say, "I'm sorry, is someone helping you? Mom, the horsey-ride guy is here again. Do we need anything?"

Avoidance is the male domestic instinct. Golf, the ultimate avoidance activity. A game so nonsensically difficult, so pointless, so irrational, so time-consuming, the world "golf" could only possibly stand for: "get out, leave family." And I have a lot of friends that play. They love it. Oh, they love it. "Jerry, you would love it. It's a very challenging game." "Yes, I am sure that it is. It's also challenging trying to throw a Tic Tac 100 yards into a shoebox."

In the fantasy mind of the golfing father, when he comes home, the family will come running out to hear the exciting stories of his golfing adventures. In reality, no one is even aware that he has left or returned… from eight and a half hours of idiotic hacking through sand and weeds while driving drunk in a clown car through a fake park.

Nonetheless, the father remains proud… dressing in bizarre outfits around the house on the weekends. All fathers essentially dress in the clothing style of the last good year of their lives. Whatever a man was wearing around the time he got married, he freezes that moment in fashion history and rides it out to the end. You see fathers on the street: '05, '91, '83.

Took the kids to the movies the other day. New announcement in the movie theater I hadn't seen before: "Please pick up the garbage from around your seat after the movie." "Oh, okay. Maybe I'll bring my orange jumpsuit and a wooden stick with a nail in it, too. Maybe I'll work my way down the highway after the credits." I'm not pickin' nothin' up! I'm the one that threw it down. There's a deal in place between us and the movie theater people. The deal is, you're rippin' us off! In exchange for that, when I'm done with something, I open my hand. Let it roll down eight rows. I'm not sticking my arm into that dark, scary hole… tryin' to pry out three Goobers that have been solder welded there since The Shawshank Redemption. What have they done for us? What… what? You gave us a cup holder? Is that our luxury feature? How about an automatic popcorn shooter that fires one in every five seconds… to complete this corpse-like experience?

The cup holder, that is the object that defines our culture. "We're not holding cups! We don't wanna grip!" Hands-free. Give me a cowboy hat with a beer on each side and a feeding tube comin' down. Give me a dog leash with an extra leash wound up in it, in case the dog pulls it, I hit the button, let the line out like he's a marlin.

I go into a public restroom, I expect a motion detector on the toilet, sink, urinal. I'm doin' nothin' in here. Why is the sink never as aware of us as the toilet? You always have to go into a David Copperfield magic act to make that work. Who designed the bathroom stall with the under-display viewing window? So we can all see the lifeless, collapsed pant legs and tragic little shoe fronts that are just barely poking out from underneath the impotent belt, lying helpless. How much more money is it to bring this wall down another foot? It's the cheapest wall in the world. It's a metal panel. They don't even make the panels meet up tight in the corners! Why can't they cinch it up? Sometimes, you're walkin' by, you see a frightened, terrorized human eye. You ever see just a flash of eye white in the space? Just a pupil? Why are we doing this to people? I'm not a horse. I don't wanna be in a stall. If it's a stall, why don't I hang my head over the door? That's what the horses do. I'm sure my coworkers recognize my shoes. Let's let 'em see my face, too. "Hey, Bob, how you doing? Yeah, this is why I had to run out of that big meeting. I had a little PowerPoint presentation of my own to do."

Thank you, New York City. You've been the best! I love you guys. You made me. I appreciate it. Thanks for comin' in to see our show. Hope you enjoyed it. Good night.

♪ There's a man Who leads a life of danger ♪
♪ To everyone he meets He stays a stranger ♪
♪ With every move he makes ♪
♪ Another chance he takes ♪
♪ Odds are he won't live to see tomorrow ♪
♪ Secret agent man ♪
♪ Secret… ♪

Now, in the helicopter, what you would do… you'd move forward a little bit before you push out.

What's this one?

It's you in the doorway.

Hey!

Hey, what's up?

♪ Beware of pretty faces that you find ♪
♪ A pretty face can hide an evil mind ♪
♪ Ah, be careful ♪

Yeah!

♪ What you say ♪
♪ Or you'll give yourself away ♪
♪ Odds are you won't live… ♪

Very good.

Thank you. 