[...CONTINUED FROM PART 1...]

What else is annoying in the world, besides everything? What about your device dictatorship that you live under, cowering in fear from your phone? "My phone! Where's my phone? I can't find my phone. It's… Oh, here it is. I got it. It's here. It's here. My phone is here." I didn't… I moved it from this pocket to this pocket. I didn't know where it was for a second. I'm okay. That was really close. Phew. You are so hypno-phonified at this point, you hand your phone to somebody to show them something. After two seconds, you go, "All right. Okay, give me it back. Give it back. You saw it. That… that's it. Give it back. I am completely off-the-grid right now."

When that battery gets low… you feel like your whole body's runnin' out of power, don't you? I just… I-I feel tired when the phone battery gets down to ten or five. I can't even walk. "You guys go ahead without me. I gotta get to a charger." A call comes in. "Listen, I don't know how much time I have left out here. I wish I could take back some of the things I've said. If I go dead on the street, tell everyone I know I'll talk to them tomorrow."

"Well, I gotta stay in touch with people, Jerry. That's why the phone's so important to me. People are pretty important, you know." Really? They don't seem very important, the way you scroll through their names on your contact list like a gay French king. "Who pleases me today? Who shall I favor? Who shall I delete?"

We are not separating from the phone. It's a part of us. Now, who are you with no phone? What access to information do you have? What you can remember. What'll you do without your pictures? Are you gonna describe what you saw? That doesn't work for us. We don't wanna talk to anybody that doesn't have a phone. That's why it's called an iPhone. It's half myself, half phone. That's a complete individual.

I don't even know what the purpose of people is anymore. I think the only reason people still exist is phones need pockets to ride around in. I used to think Uber was on my phone so I could get around. Then I started thinking maybe they put Uber on the phone because that makes me take the phone, 'cause the phone is using me to get around. Who's really the Uber in this big prostitution ring? I'm the little bitch carrying the phone. The cars are the hos, picking up strangers off the street all night. And the phone's the big pimp of the whole thing, telling the drivers, "You just get who I tell ya to get. I'll handle the money."

We call it a phone. We don't even use it as a phone. Nobody's talkin' on the phone. Once they gave you the option, you could talk or type, talkin' ended that day. It's over. Talking is obsolete. It's antiquated. I feel like a blacksmith up here sometimes, to tell you the truth. I could text you this whole thing. We can get the hell outta here right now. Why would I wanna get information from a face when I could get it from a nice, clean screen? Don't you feel uncomfortable now? Faces come up to you, "Well, I'll tell you what I think about what you ought to do." Their lips and their teeth and their gums and their… There's a missed shaving spot, there's a piece of crust, some goo. You see a little lunch remnant in their teeth. "Just send me an e-mail about this, would ya? I can't do it anymore. Your face is the worst news I've had all day."

We wanna text, text, just text! We like that word, don't we? "Text!" It's fun to say. It's got that… short, tight, got the x in there, a little bite to it. "Text it! Text!" "Don't… I don't… I don't know where it is. Don't tell me! Text it. Don't tell me!" Remember when we first got text? Not really. Can't really remember that. I-I can't either. I mean, I know that we have it. I know we didn't use to have it. I don't know how we got it. I don't remember… Did they tell us we were getting it? There was… Was there an announcement that we were getting it? There was no commercial. I don't remember a commercial. "Want some human contact but kind of had it up to here with people? Try text. Need to get someone some information but don't want to hear their stupid voice responding to it? You need to be on text."

We like it. It's fast. It's efficient. Not fast enough, apparently, for some people. Now, instead of "OK," a lot of people text me just the "K," leavin' the "O" off. What… what microfraction of a second did you save? You think you're efficient? What does that add up to, like two free minutes at the end of your day that you can watch a YouTube video of skateboarders banging their nuts off a railing? Somebody texted me "TY" the other day instead of "thank you." I'd like to bang your nuts off a railing, TY. That's not a thank-you.

We're so anxious to get the next text, they give you those three little ghosty dots to tell ya it's coming. "Oh, we're cooking up a good one for you. Wait till ya see this. You are not gonna believe what this guy's about to say." I can't show it to you yet. We're still working on it in the text machine, but it's gonna be a beauty. You can see the pistons pumping.

Sometimes, we get the ghosty dots, and then no text. What happened there? I wanna know what that was. Is that like somebody coming up to you and going… "Ah, uh, never mind."

The phones keep getting smarter. Why don't we? Why are people on voice mail still telling me to wait for the beep? It's the 21st goddamn century. I think we're all up to speed on the beep. The Maasai tribesmen of the African plain know about the beep. They don't leave a message till they hear: "Ma-ma-lay, ma-ma-lay. Beep!" Why are people still telling me to leave my name and number on voice mail? Are these necessary instructions for anyone? Anyone getting messages like, "This is a woman. Goodbye"? Or: "He's dead. Call me back." "Who was that?"

What about the, uh, camera in the phone? I always wonder if they… Before they do those kinds of things, do they stand around and go, "Hey, are you sure this is a good idea? You don't think this one feature, all by itself, could result in so many pictures, videos, posting, comments, and clapbacks that the entire life force of the human race just drains out like a puddle of piss by the side of the road? You don't think that could happen from this one thing?" "No. Nor do I think every restaurant dinner will end with a picture bully going, 'Okay, everyone. Picture. Come on. We gotta have a picture.'" "Why? We didn't have a good time. I don't wanna remember this." And let's make sure we get the least phone-fluent person in the area to take the picture. Someone old, nervous, clumsy, confused, or dim-witted. Someone that can't hold things, see things, aim things, press things. Someone who, the second they're handed the phone, it slips off camera mode, and they can't get it back. "I don't know. Is anyone… I don't, uh… Does anyone know how to…" Let's get that person so we can be standing here even longer with fake, frozen smiles and our arm around somebody you would never touch in any other social situation.

We're picture-addicted. There's no way to stop it. Sometimes, I wanna go back to the flip phone. One of those ones I see on TV. They have these phones for old people with the… with the giant buttons like floor tiles. You ever see that commercial? These old people phones, two buttons: your kid, ambulance. That's it. Forget the numbers. You don't need the numbers.

Why don't we update some of these terms that we use in the tech world, like "e-mail"? Why is the world "mail" even in "e-mail"? Is there any similarity between e-mail and whatever the hell is going on in the Postal Service? One of them operates on a digital, fiber-optic, hyper-speed network. The other is this dazed and confused, distant branch of the Cub Scouts out there, just… …bumbling around the streets in embarrassing shorts and jackets with meaningless patches and victory medals. Driving four miles an hour, 20 feet at a time, on the wrong side of a mentally handicapped Jeep. They always have this emotional, financial meltdown every three and half years that their business model from 1630 isn't working anymore. "How are we going to catch up?"

I cannot understand how a 21st-century information system based on licking, walking, and a random number of pennies… is struggling to compete. They always push the postmaster general out on TV to explain their difficulties. He's all freaked out, rings under his eyes, no shave, pullin' all-nighters. "We can't keep it up much longer. Looks like we're gonna have to go up another penny on the stamps!" We're sittin' at home, "No, dude, relax. We don't even know how much a stamp is anyway. Forty-eight, 53, 61… Make it a buck, you're gonna get there. If it ends up you got some money left over, buy yourself some pants and a real car." I would say to the Postal Service, "If you actually wanted to be helpful to us, just open the letters, read 'em, and e-mail us what it says! We'll give you a penny for each one you do… …since that seems to be a lot of money in your world."

But we are all human. Human. The human is a social species, as we can see. We tend to congregate, aggregate, and coagulate together. We live here in New York City. That makes no sense. If you take a plane out of New York, and you look down at the city, what do you see around the city? Why, there's nothing but empty, open, beautiful, rolling land out there. Nobody's there! "Let's pack in here, tight!" Uncomfortable, on top of each other, traffic, congestion! That's what we like! Human beings like to be close together because it makes it easier for us to judge and criticize… …the personalities and activities of these humans. We like to give our thoughts, our comments, our opinions. Sometimes, we run out of opinions. We make them up. "It is what it is" is a very popular opinion statement nowadays. I'm sure some idiot said it to you today. You can't get through a day without somebody going, "Well, it is what it is." Why are you alive? To just say air words that fill the room with meaningless sounds? I'd rather someone blew clear air into my face than said, "It is what it is" to me one more time. Just… just come up to me and go… 'Cause I get the same data from that! People like to say those things. "It is what it is." You see, if you repeat a word twice in a sentence, you can say that with a lot of confidence. "Business is business." "Rules are rules." "Deal's a deal." "When we go in there, as long as we know what's what and who's who, whatever happens, happens, and it is what it is."

Jerry!

We also like to say things to make ourselves feel better. "Well, at least he died doin' something that he loved." Yeah, well, okay… but he's not doin' that anymore. Also, not sure how in love with it he would still be… after the very negative outcome. I'd like to die doin' somethin' that I hate like cleaning a row of outdoor Porta Pottis. Clutch my chest, drop the brush, keel over, and go, "Fantastic. At least I'm done with that."

And when one does have occasion to avail oneself of one of these portable, plastic, outdoor public toilets, that's a very different place than any other place you go in life, and you're a little different, too, when you come out. A little shook up, like a combat veteran or somebody that works at a trauma center. "You all right?" "Yeah, no, I'm fine. I just need some time. I'll be all right. I'm gonna take a walk. I need to think… about my life. It just doesn't feel like it's goin' in the direction I wanted it to go." And by the way, never marry anyone that comes out of one of these bathrooms and goes, "It's not that bad in there." Do not marry that person. You have a lot of fantastic qualities. You will eventually meet someone. Do not settle for an individual of this caliber.

Because it's very easy to use these bathrooms. I always find the spring tension on the door to be a little lighter than I thought it was gonna be. The door opens so easily, so welcoming. "Come on in. We have something for you." A place to relieve yourself in exchange for a mental image picture that will cause you to twitch in your sleep every night for a year and a half… with PTSD: "Portable Toilet Spring Door."

I don't even know how they're allowed to call it a bathroom. It's not a bath… You're… you're crapping in a hole with a box over it. It's beastly! It's hyena living! You wanna do that thing your dog does after going to the bathroom in the grass. You know that little move they make? You wanna do that after you've used one of these things. "Why you doin' that?" "I'm tryin' to get the last few minutes outta my mind. That's all."

You're such a great audience. This is really fun. Thank you so much for bein' here.

Hey, Jerry!

Dude.

All right. Let's change gears at this point in our lovely time together here. So, those are things that I see in the outside world. Now, I wanna take you into Jerry's little world… and give you a little perspective on what's going on in my personal life. First, I will give you the basic numbers. Everybody likes the numbers. I'm 65 years old. I apologize for the shock value… …of that number. I am married for 19 years. I have three kids. My oldest is my daughter. I have two younger boys. I love being in my sixties. It's my favorite decade of human life so far. When you're in your sixties, people ask you to do somethin', you just say no. No reason, no excuse, no explanation. I can't wait for my seventies. I don't even think I'll answer. I've seen those people. You just wave when you're in your seventies. "Hey, you wanna check out that flea market?"

I like this time. It's relaxing. I don't wanna grow. I don't wanna change. I don't want to improve in anything. I don't want to expand my interests, meet anyone, or learn anything I don't already know. I don't lie in restaurants anymore. "How is everything?" "I don't like it here." "Want the check?" "No, I intend to press charges. This is outrageous."

I don't like to turn around. Like, if I'm walkin' down the street like this… "Jerry, check this out. You gotta see this." This move. I don't… I don't like doing this thing anymore. I just don't wanna do it. "You gotta see this." "I disagree." I don't feel old, I don't feel tired; I've just seen a lot of things. I'll see it on the way back, when it's in front of me. How 'bout that? Or I won't see it. Or I'll Google it. Or I'll just assume it's probably a lot like something else I've already seen.

A lot of people around my age make a bucket list. I made a bucket list, and I turned the b to an f, and I was done with that, too. I just want you to have that option. You can either check off all your items… or change one letter at the top, you're in a La-Z-Boy, watchin' a ball game.

[...CONTINUED IN PART 3...] 