Hey, it's your friend Mel, and welcome to the Mel Robbins podcast. What if I told you it was possible for you to have a much better relationship with your family, whether it's your parents or your siblings or your in laws or your adult kids, that it is possible, no matter what's happened, for you to change the dynamic with anyone in your family, even somebody with a really difficult personality? Well, that's what you and I are going to talk about today. We're going to talk about a simple tool and a whole new approach to your family dynamics. Whether they're good, whether they're bad, whether they're fun, whether they're sad. Whole new approach. Because here's what I know. The second that you are done listening to this, you're going to have absolutely everything you need to shift how you show up. And I'm telling you, it only takes one person in a family to change absolutely everything. And after listening to this conversation today, that person that's going to change your family is you.

I have no idea where this conversation is going to take me, but I know it's going to be one of the most extraordinary and amazingly impactful ones of both your and my life. Hey, it's your friend Mel, and welcome to the Mel Robbins podcast. I am thrilled that you're here. We're going to experience something so extraordinary together. If you're brand new, I want to welcome you to the Mel Robbins podcast family. This is the perfect episode to be listening to right now because we're going to be digging into the topic of purpose, of discovering your power. You're going to learn so much from our guest today. This is a woman that I've admired for 19 years. She has changed my life. She's going to change yours today. The fact that you hit play on this episode tells me that you're the type of person who values your time, and you're also interested in creating more meaning and purpose in your life. I love that. Today, you're going to get that because we have the number one life coach on the planet who is here today to help you make your life better. If you feel stuck, if you're looking for some guidance, if you want to figure out what your next step is, or if you just have this feeling that something that you're doing, it just isn't working.

You're just not quite where you're supposed to be. Well, you're in the right place right now. You're supposed to be here with your friend Mel, and you and I are in for the coaching session of a lifetime. Let me just give the context for how amazing this is. If you wanted to hire the person who's in our studio today, you couldn't book a session with her. That is how renowned she is. But today, she has hopped on a plane and flown across the country, and she is here for you. Dr. Martha Beck is the number one life coach in the world, and she's here to speak with you and me and to help you live a better life. 