Hey, it's your friend Mel, and welcome to the Mel Robbins podcast. Hey, it's your buddy Mel. I just had to get on the mic today and respond to what I'm seeing in the inbox and the comments online, because there's a lot going on in the world right now. I mean, more than ever, it feels that there's just so much that's not fair. Whether your house just burned down or your health insurance claim got denied, or you were rejected from your dream school, you're worried about politics, or maybe got screwed over in the divorce, companies laying people off and outsourcing all these jobs to AI. I'm here to tell you It's true. Life isn't fair. You're right. Since I'm seeing so many of you write in and you're experiencing situations in your life that just feel so unfair, I wanted to address it today because the worst thing that you could do is succumb to despair. I do not want you to consume yourself with worry and then start to get yourself feeling paralyzed and powerless because you're not. Today, we're going to talk about it, and I'm going to give you four things that you can do in these moments where life is overwhelming, and honestly, it just isn't fair.

You don't deserve this. But there is always something you can do. Always. It is always such an honor to spend time and to be together with you If you're brand new, I just wanted to personally welcome you to the Mel Robbins podcast family. I'm absolutely thrilled that you're here. Because you hit play and you made the time to listen to this particular episode, it tells me something about I know you're the type of person, you value your time, and you've made the time to listen to this because you're looking to feel a little bit better right now. And I'm going to tell you, today's conversation, and by the time that you're done listening to this, it is the perfect thing for you to listen to at this exact moment in time, and you will feel better. Because based on what I'm seeing in the inbox, the headlines, the news, and the DMs that you are sending me from all over the world, I just felt my heart that today we had to have a conversation. I need to be honest with you about something. It's something that people don't like to talk about, but we need to.

Life isn't fair. There, I said it. Life isn't fair, especially right now. I mean, so much of life right now feels backwards or wrong and out of control, overwhelming. It's not fair that you lost your house or that your dad died or that the polar ice caps are melting or that big tech is now suddenly taking over the world or that corporations get bailed out left and right and don't seem to pay taxes, but you can barely pay yours or that you were born diabetic or that you're the one who is always caring for your aging parents or your young kids and you're doing it alone. That's just the big stuff about life that's not fair. It's It's also not fair that your skin is breaking out or that your sister looks like a supermodel and you don't or that you got passed over for the promotion or that your neighbor's grass is greener or that you're the one who always has to clean up the mess or that you're the one who always has to be the bigger person. Life isn't fair. And I'm here to tell you that it's okay to acknowledge that. It's okay to say it out loud. It's okay to feel angry about it. It's okay to feel sad about it. It's okay to feel frustrated about it. But what's not okay is to let that unfairness paralyze you or to let it consume you or to let it define you. 