Hey, it's your friend Mel, and welcome to the Mel Robbins podcast. Have you ever walked away from a conversation or meeting at work and felt smaller? Like somehow after the conversation, you realize, wow, my confidence just got chipped away a little. As you think about what just happened, maybe you realize someone interrupted you or corrected you or dismissed what you had to say. There's this one person in my life who literally rolls their eyes as I'm talking, and they think that I can't see it, but I can see you at the end of the table rolling your eyes as I'm trying to say something. Or have you ever gotten one of those apologies where someone was like, I'm sorry, that's how you feel. And you think, wait a minute. Was that actually an apology? No, that wasn't an apology. That was belittlement. And today, trial lawyer Jefferson Fisher is here in our Boston studio videos, and you and I are going to dive deep into how to respond to disrespect, to gaslighting and exactly what to do when someone says, I was just joking, one takeaway at a time. You're not only going to learn exactly what to say, but also how your words or using silence help you reclaim your confidence, your voice, and stand your ground.

Hey, it's Mel. I am so excited that you're here. It is always such an honor to spend time with you and to be together. If you're brand new, welcome to the Mel Robbins podcast family. I also want to take a moment and acknowledge you for taking time to listen to something that could truly help you live a better life. I love what you and I are going to be talking about on today's episode, because we're going to get to spend some time today with the incredible trial lawyer, Jefferson Fisher. I wouldn't be surprised if you've actually seen him online because every single day, millions of people watch the videos that Jefferson makes from the front seat of his car in between his court cases and meetings with his clients. Jefferson's strategies for handling belittlement, gaslighting, fake apologies, toxic behavior, and difficult conversations are game changers. Boom. He is so good. I'm so excited. So let's get into it. Jefferson Fischer, I am so thrilled you're back on the Mel Robbins podcast.

Thank you for having me.

And congratulations on your new book, The Next Conversation, Argue Less, Talk More.

Thank you very much. I'm very proud of it, very excited to help a lot of people.

Well, I can't wait to dig in to the topic of how you can communicate effectively and hold on to your power, particularly when you're dealing with difficult people, challenging situations. But before we get into the tactics, can you just talk to the person listening If they take everything that you're about to teach them from your new book and they put it to use in their life, what are they going to experience?

They're going to experience a sense of control in knowing who they are and what they stand for, and they're going to be able to communicate that effectively without getting caught up in the drama of other people's emotions or other people's attempts to manipulate them. They're going to feel more confident in their own skin, and they're going to be able to have conversations that actually move things forward instead of conversations that just create more conflict and more drama. 